The Second National Conference of the Theatre Arts and Motion Pictures Association of Nigeria (TAMPAN) will begin from November 16 to 18, 2018 with insights into the challenges confronting the Nigerian movie industry especially the menace of piracy. The conference, which will hold in Lagos, will also address issues surrounding the state of the movie industry in Nigeria and the disposition of the government, which is scheduled to hold in Lagos between 16th and 18th of November 2018. This was made disclosed in a statement signed by the Chairman planning committee of the association, Otunba Bolaji Amusan popularly known as Mr. Latin. He said the yearly event would serve as an avenue to take stock and do a constructive appraisal of the association in particular and the movie industry in general. "Our association is a major employer of labour in this country and our contributions to National integration and the economic development of Nigeria cannot be overemphasized. It is therefore very unfortunate that despite our inestimable contributions to project Nigeria, government seems to be insensitive to our plight. Let me state emphatically that if government do not take the expected interest in the movie industry, they are putting our economy on the line. "The number of people whose means of livelihood depends on the movie industry and the billions of naira that are invested in it. We have been calling the attention of government at all levels especially the Federal Government, to the opportunities inherent in the industry but they have not been forthcoming. I make bold to say that with a little support from the government, we will not only stabilise the economy but we will make it flourish". Amusan, further said that the three day event will be declared open by the Governor of Lagos State, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, while the National President of the association, Prince Dele Odule will be on ground to receive guests as the Chief Host. He described the conference as a convergence of major stakeholders in the movie industry. "The chairman of the Board of Trustees, Alhaji Adebayo Salami, Prince Jide Kosoko, Alhaji Adewale Rasaq, Prince Antar Laniyan among other veterans have all confirmed that they will be in attendance". He explained that the opening ceremony of the event that will feature Seminar, Comedy, Competition in Stage Performance, and Award Presentation among others will take place at Muson Centre, Onikan while the activities of the other two days will take place at National Theatre, Iganmu. While giving assurance that the three-day event will be filled with glitz and glamour, he advised members willing to attend to register online at www.tampan2017.com