The event in Beijing on November 15, 2017 was organized by the Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries. The Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries, CPAFFC, in collaboration with the University of International Business and Economics, UIBE, Beijing, will create a database to ease employment for African students in China with the country's enterprises. The disclosure was made on November 15, 2017 in the Chinese capital at a job fair for African students organized by CPAFFC. Xu Yan, CPAFFC Director for Asian and African Affairs, described the fair as wonderful, given that it was their first experience. The theme of the one-day event was "Belt and Road and Prospects of African Youth Employment." It saw the participation of over 60 Chinese enterprises operating in China and Africa, and more than 400 African students from across China. African diplomats and leaders of China-Africa friendship associations from Africa also attended the employment fair at which CPAFFC and UIBE signed a cooperation agreement. Mandi Manditawepi Chimene, Vice President of the Zimbabwe-China Friendship Association and Governor of Manicaland Province, said the fair offered students hope of employment after school, thereby encouraging them to work harder. Governor Chimene urged African students in China to be of good conduct, adding that being away from home does not allow them to do whatever they want. "They should stick to their cultures and education and make sure they finish school in one piece," she counseled. Hon. Dr Barnaba Marial Benjamin, former South Sudan Foreign Minister, Member of Parliament and Chairperson of the South Sudan-China Friendship Association, said the job fair will help young African students to prepare their future. "The good education and training they receive in China prepares them for big responsibilities in a continent still lagging behind. The job fair provides direction and guidance on thinking and attitudes expected of these young people back home," Dr Marial underscored.