Kampala — Police blocked Kyadondo East MP, Robert Kyagulanyi aka Bobi Wine from holding music concert in Kiryandongo District on grounds that he did not notify them. While addressing the media on national security status on Monday at police headquarters in Naguru, police spokesperson, Emilian Kayima said the music concert organised by Bobi Wine was illegal and police could not let it happen. "Bobi Wine wanted to have a procession with his enthusiastic fans yet there was no sufficient contingent plan to secure the event which could have probably attracted criminal elements," Mr Kayima said. He added: "This was simply because the organiser had not brought the police on board to jointly work out mechanics of ensuring that no incident happens. As police, we had to intervene. We engaged him peacefully and he understood." Bobi Wine in his social media statement on Sunday said police foiled his concert following instructions from Kampala in which police officers were ordered to drive him back to Kampala. "Dear fellow artistes, I write to you today as your fellow artiste and as someone who has fought tooth and nail with you to promote the entertainment industry in Uganda. I believe that all of us are seeing the injustice meted out on me because some of the people in power in this country are not happy about what I sing," he said. Mr Kyagulanyi noted that police have so far cancelled over 10 of his music shows, banned several songs of his and stopped events managers and promoters from hosting him. However, Mr Kayima warned that police won't hesitate to block any person who holds a rally or public event without authorization and clearance from the police. According to Public Order Management Act (POMA), any meeting or gathering between three people and above has to be cleared by the office of the Inspector General of Police. "All events organisers are reminded to always keep the police in the know so that can jointly address emerging security issues for example handling cases of thefts, assaults, affray, and possible terror attacks and controlling traffic," Mr Kayima said.