Kampala — Halima Namakula made her mark on Uganda's music industry close to two decades ago by turning a nursery rhyme into a well composed and danceable tune. 'Ekimbeewo' was her first and break through hit which launched her into the music industry. But going professional at music would never have been her thing had it not been for a recording glitch for one of her sons. "In 1998 when I returned home to have one of my son's record his songs in one of the studios, there was some studio time left so he advised me to record 'Ekimbeewo' that I always sung in the kitchen. "I just agreed to have something take home because I was not a singer but other people around contributed to make it better," says Namakula. Even when it was done in such a short time, the producer predicted its positive outcome. Just a few days after release, the song hit the airwaves of Uganda's local radio stations and topped most countdowns. 'Ekimbeewo' remains her greatest hit although she has over six albums. At 57 years, Namakula is also an envy of many ladies for ageing gracefully. She attributes this to keeping happy always, eating healthy, and doing her makeup. She says, "I am a fully developed person with everything you need to look beautiful because I do my hair and facials". She says she studied beauty and modeling and they are her professional occupation. Shespent most of her adult life in USA, where she first travelled to join her husband, the late Samuel Semaala Kiwanuka, in Oklahoma. Namakula chose to return home after more than two decades, partly to care for her ageing mother; 95-year old Afuwa Namuddu. Her children chose to settle in USA. In 2003 she founded a charity; Women at Work International (WAWI), that initially worked with girls and women. She recently added boys. Under WAWI, Namakula says she has helped over 200 sexual workers off the streets with over 1000 still under mentorship. And with the low sensitisation and implementation of family planning campaigns, Namakula also joined the campaign to educate women on child spacing. It is through this campaign that she got to know about the fistula menace as some of the victims revealed their challenges. She successfully got in touch with a one Dr Sherry Thomas from USA who donated her time to treat fistula victims in 2012. She recalls up to 141 women receiving total healing. After the successful camp, she chose to continue with the sensitisation campaign through mobilising, and referring to hospitals. She also hosted first Fistula Walk in 2013. She is a mother to four biological children and several adopted ones. She says, "I take motherhood very seriously because it's a lifetime job and a blessing from God". She also says she picked her humanitarian tendencies from her mother who cared for many children, including adopted ones. Namakula is the second last born and only girl of the seven children of Namuddu. Only two of her siblings are alive. Namakula was born and raised in the city suburbs of Kalerwe, went to Mandal Primary School currently Bat Valley Primary School and City High School before conceiving and giving birth to her first son at only 15 years. Even with attempts to resettle her back in school, Namakula conceived again and quit school. She only resumed school when she joined her husband in USA. He died in 1994. Even without any new songs, Namakula still relies on her built popularity to draw crowds and push her humanitarian work. It is her wish to be remembered as someone who contributed a lot in humanitarian work; especially in Uganda. Halima Namakula's Liteside Any three things we don't know about you? Motherhood defines who I am because I managed to raise my children at a very young age. I don't know of any other reasons many people can paint an image to my name. What is your idea of perfect happiness? My children are my source of happiness. What is your greatest fear? I fear living this world before I accomplish my purpose in life. What is the trait you most deplore in yourself? My facial expression doesn't portray me as a loving person and yet I am. I would love to be portrayed as a soft person but I wasn't raised that way. What is the trait you most deplore in others? Looking down on others. Which living person do you most admire? My mother Afuwa Namuddu is the most dynamic woman who managed to raise many children who including non-biological ones. What is your greatest extravagance? I spend most on other people to the extent that at times I give my last to make others happy. What is the greatest thing you have ever done? Loving my children unconditionally; it is not an attribute of all women. What is your current state of mind? I am just happy. What do you consider the most overrated virtue? We complain too much about government's failure to deliver even the smallest of things yet God blessed us with the resources. We should rather know that the government or president can only do so much within the means. What does being powerful mean to you? Power comes with being good in and out, compassionate, loving and having an open door policy. One individual who has portrayed such characters is Speaker of Parliament, Rebecca Kadaga, and she is one woman that I want to hang around with. On what occasion do you lie? I tell lies at all times; especially if I am benefitting from it. I even tell my children that they can only lie if they benefit big from it. What do you most dislike about your appearance? I love everything about me. Which living person do you most despise? Anyone who pretends to be friends and yet they are not. I despise hypocrites and liars. What is the quality you most like in a man? Taking on the values of a mother. What is the quality you most like in a woman? Loving and caring. What or who is the greatest love of your life? I love my mother the most and my children come after her. If my husband was still living, he would come after my mother. When and where were you happiest? Witnessing my two children Hemdee and Rashid get on a plane to join me and their father in USA. I am always happy around my grandchildren. Which talent would you most like to have? I want to go back to what I went to school for; beautifying people although I want to do it at a consultancy level. What is your most treasured possession? I don't treasure things because they come and go. What do you regard as the lowest depth of misery? Witnessing someone you love die in your hands can make you almost forget about God. It is especially low when you know that you can't do much than let him or her die. What is your favorite occupation? Being a humanitarian comes from the heart. What do you most value in your friends? Real love. Who is your hero of fiction? Denzel Washington is an all-time star. Which historical figure do you most identify with? Even when I didn't get the opportunity to meet him, I loved the sincerity in Nelson Mandela. What is your greatest regret? I regret not spending more time with my late brother Steven when he returned to USA. How would you like to die? In any way as a believer in Allah. What is your motto? What you see is what you get.