FOR many of us, reaching for our mobile phones is the first thing we do when we are bored, curious or looking for something new, when we're commuting to work, showing friends what we did last weekend or the new pair of sunglasses we really want to buy. When it comes to getting work done, responding to emails when at home or on the road, employees turn to their mobile devices. As organisations, why not equip employees with tools they need to get work done at their convenience and in the comfort of their fingertips. It even works out in favour of organisations when employees can use their own devices for getting work done, a phenomenon referred to as BYOD (Bring Your Own Device). For employees, although it's undeniable that mobility has a tendency to extend the workday into what would otherwise be personal time, it also gives back to employees the control as to when and where that intersection takes place. In addition, it enables the dovetailing of their social lives back into the workplace as appropriate, offering the potential for healthier work/life balance. BYOD delivers an opportunity to reduce the cost of mobility overall by transferring equipment, voice, and data usage costs to employees, thereby decreasing capital expenses. Although it does tend to increase the complexity of the mobile infrastructure, if managed properly, through Mobility Renaissance's Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM) solution offering, this can be a seamless transition towards mobile first. So, if our employees are so reliant on their mobile phones - not only to access information, but as their primary means of communication - and, we can see that this will only grow over time as Generation Z enters the workforce - should organisations not have already moved on from designing for mobile-first as a means to engage with their customer? The greatest concern that organisations have with mobile first has always been security. The concern that corporate data will be compromised, the concern that personal devices might introduce a security breach onto the corporate network. Mobility Renaissance, a South African born Tech company based in Sandton, Gauteng has all these security concerns addressed through the implementation of a MobileIron EMM solution. A platform that: gives feasibility of all organisation mobile devices, gives an organisation control over what and what cannot be used the device for gives an organisation the power to deploy corporate data instantly from a central point to over 2000 devices enables employees to separate personal and work profiles on their personal devices MR is a South African born Information Technology (IT) company that develops mobile applications for private (Individual) and business use.