The National Education Health and Allied Workers' Union [NEHAWU] will brief the media tomorrow on the state of readiness for its upcoming Provincial Day of Action. The Day of Action which will take place next week Thursday 23rd November 2017 will be in the form of a march directed to both the Premiers office and Provincial Treasury. As NEHAWU, we have noted with tremendous disdain that quite an exorbitant amount of tax payers' money has been misused and mismanaged but nothing has transpired to take action against such financial mishaps. We believe that there is a growing tendency in the government to spend public funds and not account, even to consider the public interest. We also witnessed gross misadministration of government services and a gross violation of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and the Public Service Act (PSA) whereby the choice of the service delivery mechanisms that are preferred are usually profit driven service delivery mechanisms instead of being needs driven. We believe that outsourcing and labour broking is a choice among many mechanisms used to enrich the few at the expense of the masses of our people and the working class. A memorandum will be submitted during the Day of Action. The memorandum of demands will amongst others include the following: Filling of all funded vacant posts in order to improve service delivery and ensure employment opportunities to unemployed graduates and young people immediately. End of outsourcing of all key government functions Drop immediately austerity measures on wage bill and personnel to improve conditions of service and better pay as part of boosting low morale and encouraging better performance of public servants. Immediately stop the implementation of neoliberal macroeconomic policies that undermine industrialization and job-creation. Immediately absorb community health-care workers to become part of healthcare service and must constitute an integral part of the public service in order to improve their conditions of employment and receive a better salaries. Full implementation of National Health Insurance as it ensures the constitutional right of citizens to health as per the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa Immediately fast track the engagement and conclusion of the comprehensive social security system. Imposition of wealth tax to fund free education. Mobilisation for the march is at an advanced stage and we are happy with our state of readiness. A press conference is scheduled for tomorrow to communicate details of the march and our state of readiness.