Lagos — Boomplay Music, Africa's fastest growing music streaming and download platform, reinforced its continued contribution to the African content distribution ecosystem, after being recognised by an independent panel of industry experts at the Apps Africa Awards. The music streaming, download platform won the award for the 'Best African App' for its unique and user-friendly Boomplay Music application, which gives easy access to millions of songs, videos and entertainment buzz. The award was announced at the AppsAfrica Awards party in Cape Town, South Africa on November 6, 2017. Nominated in the same category was Carter - SA, Asorbia - Ghana, Truecaller Africa and Feastfox - SA. Boomplay Music led the pack in the category to become the first on demand music streaming and downloading app to ever win the award. AppsAfrica is a leading pan-African technology news portal and advisory service dedicated to delivering the latest insights on mobile, tech and innovation in Africa. The AppsAfrica Awards aims to celebrate and connect the best in the African mobile and tech ecosystem with global players, and are recognised as the premier accolade for anyone operating in Africa's digital market. As at October 2017, Boomplay Music users have increased to over 16 million, compared to 6 million at the end of 2016. Meanwhile, the Monthly Active Users have also increased to 9 million, up from only 2 million in the same period in 2016. According to Joe He, managing director of Boomplay Music, over 2 million users are now using the app to listen to music, watch videos and read news every day. "Bagging the award for the best African app showcases our renewed efforts to build a sustainable ecosystem for content providers. The growth we have experienced in only a little over two years is super impressive," he stated. Boomplay Music app is currently available for all android devices in the Google Play Store and will be available for iOS users in the year 2018. Ohimai Godwin Amaize - Ceo, The Signal Charity & Philanthropy Category New Era Charitable Foundation Rev. Biodun Fatoyimbo Pastor Joshua Iginla St. Kizito Clinic/Loving Gaze O.B. Lulu Briggs Foundation Pastor Dexter Akin-Alamu Opm Foundation - Apostle Dr. Chibuzor Chinyere Duncan Wene Mighty Okechukwu Illustrous Artistes Category Alibaba Antar 'Laniyan Young Person Award Category Honourable 'Dapo Lam-Adesina The event will be strictly by invitation & tables will be available on request. The President of Pilas Awards also said plans are on to have the event covered live. The Special Guest Of Honour at this event is expected to be his imperial Majesty, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi Ojaja Ii, Ooni Of Ife.