The National Education Health and Allied Workers' Union [NEHAWU] in the North West province is infuriated by the dishonesty displayed by the Department of Social Development in the province in relation to the insourcing of the Secure Care Centre Services that are currently outsourced to the scandal-ridden BOSASA Group of Companies. After signing a settlement of the NEHAWU demands that culminated into a national strike, NEHAWU suspended their national strike in the Department of Social Development in April 2017 believing that the employer was acting in good faith. This action led to the Department of Social Development in the province convening a meeting with NEHAWU in July 2017 to inform to the union of its decision to insource the Secure Care Centre Services. This action led to a marathon of meetings of a task team comprising of members from both parties that worked on the practical insourcing process. The marathon of meetings resulted in a decision on 28th August 2017 to effectively insource these services as of 01st September 2017. A roadshow by the task team to inform the affected employees of this decision was immediately embarked on from 28th August 2017 and concluded on 30th August 2017. During this roadshow affected employees were also read a letter from the Office of the unreliable Head of Department, Ms Dikeledi Mothobi informing them that "the Department will be taking over from 1st September 2017" and that all affected employees will be "continuing your services with the Department from 1st September 2017". These roadshows uplifted the spirit of these employees who are contract workers with BOSASA as this meant that their socio-economic situation would drastically change for the better. However, their excitement was short-lived when they were read a letter from BOSASA informing them that their socio-economic situation will not change until, at least, the end of November 2017 as the contract of BOSASA was extended by the Department of Social Development. This act clearly displayed the arrogance of the Head of Department of Social Development, Ms Dikeledi Mothobi and the disregard by the Department and certain politicians of the laws of our country all in the name of benefitting certain individual politicians at the expense of workers of our country. As NEHAWU in the North West province we want to categorically state that this extension was done without any consultation with us as representatives of these employees. As if this display of arrogance and disregard for the socio-economic welfare of workers of our country is not enough the Department of Social Development has gone on to advertise a tender for the Secure Care Centre Services. This is a clear display that the Department of Social Development was hoodwinking both the union and its members when engaging in task team meetings and roadshows when it knew that it is not having any intentions of insourcing the Secure Care Centre Services, at least, under this fifth administration. These dastardly acts by the Head of Department of Social Development and those politicians with whom she is in cahoots leave us with no other option but to return the favour. It has led to a total loss of trust in the Head of Department and the politicians with whom she is in cahoots. We will not lie down but go back to the drawing board which will inform our response to these dastardly acts. Let us also remind these arrogant people that workers have nothing to lose but their chains! For any clarity, please contact Patrick Makhafane, the North West Provincial Secretary at 082 455 2486 or Sam Moemi, the Provincial Deputy Secretary at 073 064 9300 visit NEHAWU website at www.nehawu.org.za or email khaya@nehawu.org.za