Musician Akothee has revealed that she pays approximately sh1.95 million per year as school fees for one of her children. The unnamed school charges sh650, 000 per term for every pupil. The revelation was contained in a bitter post on social media after the musician had been called a high end prostitute. Akothee wondered why people call successful women prostitutes and clarified that she sustains her lavish lifestyle through sheer hard work. "One of my children is paying 650k per term yet they are 5, how many men will I sleep with to cover this? Lost sheep! Start analysing your life, analyzing my life yet you haven't met me! Will make you sick, now if you come to my real life you will commit suicide coz shit is real, am not one of the celebrity who pose with fake things come slowly, I will blow your head #jachienmoruakoguchi, you are the one misleading young girls trying to make them understand that a woman can only get rich through fraud and prostitution," she wrote in the post. Akothee went on to urge her critics to focus on their personal lives. "Am having sleepless nights trying to figure out how I can enhance my life get richest and extend my hand to those around me! , you are busy analysing how I made my money yet you heard about me 3 years ago when fame hit the frame fool! Do you have any brains? If sex would make people rich! Why are you still broke? Or do ours ejaculate mercury so we sell later? It's just that you ain't a celebrity so no one knows your shit! Bullshit, get a corner sit down & continue analysing & getting broke with a heart full of bitterness , you can't sit with me #mandoyuech!" she wrote. She went on to claim that those calling her a prostitute are jealous of her success. "My life needs a case study not for every idiot to understand! Well you bitter because am rich right? So every rich woman is either a prostitute or fraud! You don't believe in hardwork and working smart + some people like #madamboss were born lucky for having a pure heart!" she exclaimed.