Ashinaga Uganda Program Coordinator Hector Bagley is expected to arrive in Liberia on November 20. The Japanese international non-governmental organization, Ashinaga Africa Initiative (AAI), is expected to shortly begin its leadership program in Liberia, the program coordinator, Hector Bagley, disclosed. The launch of the program, according to Bagley, will be the first AAI program in the country. Bagley said, "Ashinaga is traveling to Monrovia to promote the brand and to also meet with representatives of leading NGOs, media houses and relevant government agencies." Ashinaga provides educational and emotional support for orphaned students worldwide to enable them to overcome emotional trauma and advance in their academic pursuits by becoming agents of social change. AAI is an academic leadership program launched in 2014 with the aim of contributing to Sub-Saharan Africa's expanding role in global development through an increased access to international higher education. Ashinaga considers the Sub-Saharan Africa as a region of immense vibrancy, innovation, and growth with the youngest population of any region, endowed with abundant natural resources that is also experiencing rapid economic development, a release stated. Since its establishment in 2014, Ashinaga has provided scholarships for over 200 students, most of whom are orphans that were opportuned to attend several universities, including the universities of London and Manchester. According to a brochure the AAI issued in Monrovia, the NGO goes beyond simply providing financial aid by ensuring that scholars receive the education, training, professional networks, and opportunities to realize their vision. "We provide to each of the selected AAI scholars the academic and financial support to study abroad as well as access to mentoring and career guidance. After graduation, scholars are compelled to return home, empowered to turn their vision into reality. Each year, we aim at selecting one Ashinaga," the brochure further states. While building their success in Japan, in 2001 Ashinaga expanded its activities internationally with the establishment of new offices in Kampala, Uganda with the primary focus to support HIV/AIDS orphans. "Since then, we have opened new offices in Dakar, Senegal, the USA, the UK, and France to support the Ashinaga Africa Initiative," the brochure said. A team of officials from AAI headed by Bagley is expected in Liberia on Friday, November 20.