At 2017 Pearl Nigeria Awards, United Capital Plc and Transcorp Hotels Plc won six awards in various categories. The event was held over the weekend, at Eko Hotels & Suites Lagos, with the theme "Winning with Tenacity". United Capital Plc won five awards, three of which were in the Main Competitive Award Category at the PEARL Nigeria Awards. The firm also received the overall highest award 'The PEARL'. 'The PEARL' award was based on United Capital's outstanding corporate governance and stock performance. Other awards won by United Capital Plc included: Sectoral Leadership Award, Financial Services – Other Financial Institutions (Main Competitive Award Category)Sectoral Leadership Award, Highest Dividend Yield (Main Competitive Award Category)Good Corporate Governance Award (Special Recognition Award Category)OutstandingCEO of the Year Award (Honorary Award Category) Transcorp Hotels Plc, represented by the CEO, Valentine Ozigbo, walked away with the award for Sectoral Leader in the Nigerian Capital Market for Services (Hotels Sector). The PEARL Awards Nigeria, is one of Nigeria's foremost award recognition bodies, focused on rewarding corporate excellence in local institutions and promoting healthy competitiveness amongst quoted companies through growth, diversification and innovation; ultimately leading to improved performance on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. Tony Elumelu, Chairman of the African proprietary investment company, Heirs Holdings, commented, "I am delighted by this recognition. Both companies have done very well. As an investor, I appreciate the unwavering efforts of the management, who are seasoned leaders in their respective fields, and the staff, who remain focused on delivering on their promise to all stakeholders. These accolades are well deserved." Heirs Holdings Group, with investments in power, banking & financial services, oil & gas, healthcare, real estate and hospitality, continues to lead in its sectors of operations and investments with companies that are impacting lives and transforming Africa.