The prosecution of crimes under international law in Africa is in doubt as leaders maintain a hostile posture to the International Criminal Court, but remain non-committal to setting up an alternative judicial mechanism on the continent. Speaking at an international justice symposium in Kigali last week, experts cast doubts on the possibility of having an African court with criminal jurisdiction, as countries lack the will to ratify the Malabo Protocol extending the jurisdiction of the African Court on Human and Peoples Rights to cover criminal matters. "Three years after the protocol was adopted, no country has ratified it, even though having such a court was the main argument some countries were advancing for withdrawing from the ICC," said former ACHPR president Gerard Niyungeko. According to Mr Niyungeko, when compared with other African Union legal instruments, the Malabo Protocol has taken the longest time to be ratified. The protocol establishing the African Court of Justice and Human Rights was adopted in 2014. It needs to be ratified by at least 15 member states to come into force. Participants at the symposium however questioned whether the court would be a true mechanism to hold accountable people responsible of gross violations of human rights on the continent. The court would complement national judiciaries, and only intervene when the latter are unwilling or unable to investigate and try war crimes. "Even if the protocol was ratified, the financial implications would be huge. Another challenge lies in the immunity regime for sitting heads of state and other high-ranking government officials," said Mr Niyungeko. The protocol provides that "No charge shall be commenced or continued before the court against any serving AU head of state or government, or anybody acting or entitled to act in such capacity, or other senior state officials based on their functions, during their tenure." This immunity clause, according to analysts would undermine the court's ability to serve as a deterrent to perpetration of international crimes. Other challenges relate to the proposed court's logistical and human resource capacity to deliver on its mandate. Experts, however maintain that despite concerns raised against the ICC, the African court is still relevant.