Award-winning gospel musician Mathias Mhere relishes his debut Australian show where he received overwhelming support from fans. Mhere was the guest artiste at the rising gospel musician Tarisai Vushe's album launch held at the God's Power Ministries in Sidney on November 11. Vushe's latest album is titled "Redemption" and she rose to fame in 2001 when she started to feature on musical and television shows in Australia. The elated Mhere was stunned by the way his latest album "Old Testament" was being appreciated in the foreign land. "I was really humbled by the support I received from my fans in Australia. I was amazed to see them singing along to most of the songs on my new album during the time when I was on stage," he said. It was during that moment that it dawned to Mhere that his music had transcended the border and had found home in several households beyond the confines of Zimbabwe, something he never imagined. "The brand can only get better with the support of my local fans who have been my pillar of strength," he said. From the video circulating on social media, the "Favour" hit-maker serenaded fans with his popular hits that were accompanied by well choreographed dances. Songs such as "Favour", "Nhamo Yekuzvipa", "Sahwira," "Mwari Ndirangarireiwo", "Dhindindi Full Time" among others proved to be favourites of many. The "Favour" hit-maker has several times toured countries like Canada, United Kingdom, United States, Canada, Ireland and South Africa. Meanwhile, the musician said he was back in the studio recording another album. "I am already in the studio preparing for my upcoming album that I will release early next year. I have been motivated by the success of my current album, thanks to the unwavering support I get from my fans," he said. Mhere first recorded an album titled "Tinoda Nyasha" in 2008 but failed to make an impact on the local market. He found his glory in 2012 with album "Anoita Minana" followed by "Nguva Yenyasha" that was released in 2013.