Kampala — Former Mulago hospital executive director, Lawrence Kaggwa, has been hailed by relatives, former work mates and friends as a patriotic and hardworking person who enhanced the development of the national referral hospital. Dr Kaggwa served as Mulago boss for 12 years until 2005 when he joined Ministry of Health as director of planning. The 69-year-old succumbed to cardiovascular respiratory failure last Friday at the Uganda Heart Institute (UHI). Dr John Omangino, the director of UHI, who is also a former student and workmate of the deceased, described him as a 'very meticulous surgeon and professional'. "I worked with him as a surgeon at Mulago's Ward B but he was a very good man," he said. Dr Omangino also revealed that Dr Kaggwa is one of the founding members of the now independent UHI. He disputed earlier rumours that the former director at the time of his death was struggling to pay the hefty medical bills. He said Dr Kaggwa held special privileges and they couldn't charge him. "Dr Kaggwa has not got any bill. He is one of the old managers of the institute and falls under a certain group of exemption," Dr Omangino told Daily Monitor, noting that it was only on a few occasions when they experienced shortage of supplies when his family had to procure before it was brought to the attention of the health Ministry whom he said were able to intervene. Ms Eva Kaggwa, the deceased's eldest daughter, also eulogised her father as a great family man and a patriot. During his tenure, Dr Banterana Byarugaba, the current executive director of Mulago hospital, described the deceased as one who worked hard towards the establishment of different structures at the hospital. Dr Banterana said the structures include the various patients walkways at the hospital and other offices at upper Mulago where the office of the hospital director and assessment centre are currently located. "He also secured the first African Development Bank (ADB) fund to construct the big store of drugs and incinerator," Dr Banterana said. Dr Kaggwa is expected to be laid to rest tomorrow at Serinnya village, Kyannamukaaka Sub-county in Masaka District.