Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, has advocated a regional collaboration against money laundering and terrorism financing. He made the call at the 28th plenary meeting of the Inter-Governmental Action Group against Money Laundering in West Africa (GIABA). Dogara lamented that the lack of effective regional and global cooperation, has made criminals to globalise their activities seamlessly.He ured a stronger synergy among impoverished African countries in the global crusade.The speaker advised the developed countries to stop providing a safe haven for stolen funds from African nations, especially Nigeria. He said: "We must realise as stakeholders, that the criminals have globalised their activities and are connecting across the globe, while the enforcers of the laws are hampered, due to the lack of effective international cooperation and collaboration. "There must be a synergy between the impoverished countries where the monies might have been stolen and laundered from, and the countries that are considered as safe havens, where these proceeds of crime are kept. On his part, the Director General, GIABA, Col. Adams Coulibaly, commended the government for his commitment to the fight against the scourge and promoting the values of integrity and good governance.The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, disclosed that Nigeria had taken several steps in curtaling money laundering activities. Malami, who was represented by his Special Assistant on Research and Special Projects, Sylvester Imhanobe, said the steps include the implementation of the Bank Verification Number (BVN) and the Single Treasury Account (STA). Meanwhile, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has graduated four fighter pilots from its 403 Flying Training School (403 FTS) in Kano, as part of efforts to end the Boko Haram insurgency in the northeast and strengthen the capacity of its personnel. NAF's spokesman, Air Commodore Olatokunbo Adesanya Abuja, disclosed this in a statement in Abuja yesterday.He quoted the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, as saying that the increase in number of young pilots is a departure from the past when only senior officers of the rank of Air Vice Marshal and Air Commodore were the ones flying. In a related development, about 21 people have been killed and 26 others wounded in the multiple suicide bombings that took place in Maiduguri on Wednesday. The Chairman of the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH) Medical Advisory Committee, Dr. Bashir Tahir, disclosed this yesterday.The Borno State Police Commissioner, Damian Chukwu, had earlier confirmed the death of 18 persons and the wounding of 29 others. In Adamawa State, the Commissioner for Information, Ahmed Sajoh, disclosed in Yola yesterday that the military killed two insurgents on Wednesday in Sabongari village. He explained that it carried out the operation after a two-hour battle with reinforcement from the neighboring towns, which was also confirmed by the Chairma of Madagali Local Council, Yusuf Mohammed.