Before President Muhammadu Buhari presented the 2018 budget to the National Assembly on Tuesday, Senate President Bukola Saraki read a brief speech. The speech centred on issues such as budget implementation, plugging revenue leakages and others. Here are 10 major highlights of the speech as sent by his office. ON THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY EFFORTS "I must commend Mr. President, the Economic Management Team, my Distinguished colleagues and Honourable members of the House of Representatives as well as all Nigerians, for working together to make the necessary sacrifices to get the economy out of recession. Without doubt, this recovery benefitted from greater policy coordination, prioritization and passage of economic reform bills, but more importantly, the resilience of the Nigerian people." ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE 2018 BUDGET "It is pertinent to note that the implementation of the 2018 Budget - how it is implemented - will be a defining element of this Administration. We must therefore continue to work together to steady the ship of this recovery." ON NIGERIA & OIL "As the country gradually recovers, it is important to reset the fundamentals that drive our economy - so we do not slide back into recession. We must reassess the relationship between oil and our economy. Oil prices are gradually inching up, but that is no reason for complacency in our diversification drive. We must grow our economy away from oil - as well as the need to increase non-oil revenue generation and collection." ON INDEPENDENT REVENUE & PLUGGING LEAKAGES "Revenue from taxes as well as independent revenues from State Owned Enterprises must be taken seriously. If the budget is to be funded, we cannot afford to turn a blind eye to revenue under-performance. While there is a need to review extant laws guiding the operation of some Government enterprises, I would urge for more determined effort on the part of the Executive, to plug leakages." ON PRODUCTIVE BORROWING "... We must ensure that our borrowing is targeted at productive projects that will stimulate the economy. We must ensure real value-for-money in projects funded by borrowing, and make doubly sure that the projects are not overpriced." ON ENSURING THAT THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY IMPACTS LIVES "As the country emerges from that period of uncertainty, the question on the lips of many Nigerians has been this: How does the recovery translate into tangible economic benefits for me? We must remember that the real gains must be felt on a personal level by the individual, for economic recovery to have meaning. People are seeking to get back to work but cannot find jobs." ON ENSURING THAT THE 2018 CREATES JOBS "While I commend your current efforts at tackling unemployment - especially among the youth through Federal Youth Programmes such as YouWin, N-Power, and YES-Programme - deliberate steps must be taken to make the 2018 budget a job oriented one." ON #MADEINNIGERIA "... we must see to the implementation of the Procurement law, with particular relevance to the part that has to do with support for Made-In-Nigeria goods. The implementation of the 2018 budget must anchor on the Made-In-Nigeria project. This should be reflected in government procurements in 2018." ON THE NEED FOR EQUITY IN DISTRIBUTION OF DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS "We must never lose sight of the need for equity and balanced development across the entire spread of our country. Infrastructural development should be seen to be well distributed, to create growth pools away from the major city centres and drive the regeneration of our rural areas. Agriculture, for instance, is meaningless without those that will engage in farming in the countryside. The current rate of rural-to-urban migration is alarming and unsustainable - congesting the cities and stretching resources to breaking point, while undermining the economic viability of some states. People must be able to see a future for themselves in every corner of this country, not just in the big cities." ON CO-OPERATION BETWEEN THE LEGISLATURE & THE EXECUTIVE "As I close, Mr. President, I would like to advise and caution that there is no better time in this Administration than now for a rigorous drive for good working relationship between the Executive and the Legislature. The early passage of the 2018 budget will depend on this good working relationship."