ONE local person, whose name has become synonymous with the struggle to have a proper operational copyright system in the country, is John Kitime. For years, this veteran musician, who stands as the Secretary General for the Tanzania Music Federation, has attended meetings after meetings to this end, without seeing the desired system in place. For the last two days he and other local stakeholders of the Creative Industries (CI) together with officials from the Mainland's Copyright Society of Tanzania (COSOTA), their counterparts from the Zanzibar Isles, Kenya, Liberia, Malawi, Namibia, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa. Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe, have come together for discussions in a "Copyright and Digital Environment Seminar". When the 'Daily News' asked Kitime what were his expectations after this gathering, with regards to a change for the better, he welcomed the question. Having such a gathering, he maintains is very much in line with what should be happening now, he maintains. However, the next step will depend on how the seminar's local participants take what they've learnt to artists. "Of-course, it also depends on how the artists are going to take it. Because we have a problem. Yesterday (Monday), there were artists who were invited to the seminar, but none of them turned-up," he said. This reluctance of local artists to attend such seminars, Kitime believes could be because they don't understand that the fulcrum of their business is copyright. Another reason, he stated is that those few, who have managed to make some money from their Art, have never come across copyright. Therefore, don't believe it will help them in any way. There is also, this other group, who have always been there hearing this and that concerning how copyright is going to help them but have not seen this in operation. Therefore, these artists, he says, tend to hold onto their belief that there's nothing they can gain from it. However, Kitime got some hopes from the seminar, for a number of reasons. "One, it's now easier for the artists to control their Art. Given this digital age, it's now easier for the artists themselves to sell their product without a middle man, so it is much more important for them to know how this thing works. Getting the knowledge will certainly be of advantage to them," he suggested. Given certain actions being taken here and outside of the country, he is also optimistic that local broadcaster's, both radio and television, will finally have to comply with the copyright laws. The days when artist works could be used at will without any financial returns going to them, according to Kitime, will soon be over. Judging for the words of other local stakeholders, at the seminar, it is possible to concur with the veteran musician that things are certainly heading towards a change for the better, with regards to copyright issues. In a short address to participants yesterday (Tuesday), COSOTA's Chief Executive Officer and Copyright Administrator, Doreen Anthony Sinare, agreed with the recommendation made by stakeholders that right holders, who are the artists themselves, need to push for the amendment of the copyright law to be accepted. The agreement also accepts that there has to be a separation between the Copyright Office (CO) and the Collective Management Organisation (CMO). This way, the CO supervises the CMO, who will have stiffer punishment, the best way to deal with the expressions of folklore, which will add to the resale rights. She also expressed there being a need for more awareness programme, for the local society and a need of express provisions to bar right holders from assigning exclusive rights. "Copyright deals with an area where development is growing very fast. The licensing areas are increasing every day. Therefore, it would be a wastage of time if we only concentrate on a few rights, while other new areas are coming up," Sinare said. When addressing participants on behalf of the Minister for Industry, Trade and Investment, Charles Mwijage, the Acting Assistant Director, Wilson Malosha, admitted that Tanzania is relatively an up-coming country, when it comes to the formal administration of "Intellectual Property" (IP) in general. This he said is at a time when all have seen how copyrightbased industries grow and contribute to the national economies. This is happening when the country is moving ahead quickly in the production of copyright works, such as music, literature, films, crafts and computer software. In this respect the Minister also stated that COSOTA is relatively a new concept to locals, especially the right-holders and users of copyrights. He also admitted that the threat of IP, all over the world is growing, especially in the digital environment. This is why, he maintains all stakeholders, including the government, and in this case, especially the department of customs and excise, have to work together to redress this "ever growing threat to our economic livelihood". The Minister also suggested that if East African countries, at all levels, put in place joint strategies towards administration and enforcement of copyright, and work as one, with African countries being the second level, they can make the world work as one, for the betterment of their CI's for more economic, social and cultural contribution to the development of their countries.