In a rare jazz festival that features international artistes, Domboshava music lovers are in for a treat this weekend. Japanese singer Iyco and Kakafuraha band return to Zimbabwe after an impressive performance at the Harare International Festival of the Arts this year and will perform in Domboshava tomorrow at Generations Sports Bar. Etched at Runanga business centre, 37km from Harare on the Pote road, Generations Sports Bar is slowly changing the face of entertainment in the peri-urban settlement. The Japanese band will be supported by the multi-racial local outfit Ovation Fuse and Fab Band, Starbrite Domboshava winners Gafa King and Queens dance troupe a unique group that predominantly does international soulful songs. Many other local groups are expected to perform at the festival that takes place throughout the weekend. The festival is being done for the Domboshava community that rarely gets a chance to see international acts, although it will likely attract jazz followers from Harare also. The Japanese outfit incorporates African rhythms, Shona lines and has a unique sound termed JAPAFRICA that makes it outstanding. The group's leader Iyco said her ambition is to take her fusion to the world and Zimbabwe has proved to her launch pad. Veteran DJ and ZBC SFM Presenter Ronald "D-train" Chiwanza will open tomorrow's show at 1pm with some mature selections before bands take to the stage. Local spokesman for the Japanese outfit Taonga Mafundikwa, also known as CC in arts circles, said the move to hold shows in places like Domboshava is to expose the marginalised society to international acts thereby facilitating cultural exchange. "I want to thank everyone involved in this event, especially Generations Sports Bar management for the festival. It will be a good chance for people to exchange notes and share cultural experiences. Most festivals are meant for people in urban areas, but this one goes to rural community and it will be unique," said Mafundikwa. The Japanese group first performed at HIFA in 2015 and returned this year. Last year they were on a whirlwind tour of the USA and they now target Africa for more shows.