This year's awards are themed 'Together we Can', and are aimed at recognising the best performing personalities in the gospel music industry. The nominees are not only gospel artistes but also media houses and media personalities with an outstanding role in promoting gospel music and endearing it to the public. Pastor John Kaiga, the Chairperson of Groove Awards Rwanda, assured of transparency in the awards, pointing out that the winners will be selected on merit. "We want to ensure transparency by making sure that those who will be recognised will deserve the awards. It is something we will make sure is done," he said. "Gospel music should not only play a spiritual role among Christians but it should also impact the artiste's physical welfare as a lucrative trade," Kaiga added. Over the years, Rwandan gospel artistes have often complained about not being paid for their work and being expected to perform for free, despite investing heavily in their work. He said Groove Awards are there to encourage gospel artistes to do quality music with a message that can spiritually heal or empower people and at the same time praise God. The nominees were unveiled after three weeks of nomination process from gospel music journalists and the contestants' fans across the country. The voting process by the public started immediately after the nominees were unveiled and will continue till December 17 at midnight before the winners are announced a few hours later. One can vote their favourite gospel artiste by SMS by typing the word 'Groove' and leave space then the contestant's code and send to 5000, or vote online via www.grooveawards.co.rw and follow the options. Public votes will have 40 per cent against panelists' 60 per cent. Awards winners will be announced at a gala slated for December 17 at Kigali Serena Hotel. Nominations were announced in 13 categories as seen below. Gospel Radio show of the year Gospel Image Show (Radio Musanze) Intashyo (Radio Umucyo) Magic Gospel Show (Magic FM) Imbaraga zo Guhimbaza (Life Radio) Himbaza show (City Radio) Hip Hop song of the Year Ikiganza cy' Uwiteka - The Pink ft Gabby Kamanzi Imana Y'Ukuri - Deo Imanirakarama Intwari - Toussaint Shema Umukunzi Wanjye - Rev. Kayumba ft Diana Kamugisha Yaguhenda - MD Worship Song of the Year Calvary - Healing Worship Team Hari Ubuzima - Israel Mbonyi Ibyo Ntunze - Bosco Nshuti Imvugo Yiwe - Gentil Bigizi Narakubonye - Papy Clever Christian Website of the Year Agakiza.com Ibyiringiro.com Ibyishimo.com Isezerano.com Iyobokamana.com Dance Group of the Year Healing Stars Drama Team Shekinah Drama Team Shining Stars Drama Team The Blessing Family The Soldiers of Jesus Christ Video of the Year Haleluya - Billy Jakes Ikiganza - The Pink Imvugo Yiwe - Gentil Bigizi K'Umusozi - Diana Kamugisha Yesu Ni Sawa - Beauty For Ashes TV Show of the Year Be Talented - Authentic TV Gospel Celebrities - TV7 Himbaza Gospel Show - Isango TV Power of Praise - Royal TV Shalom Gospel Show - TV1 Radio Presenter of the Year Ange Daniel Ntirenganya - Radio Umucyo Felix Mbabazi - City Radio Bienvenue Ndacyayisenga - Life Radio Patience Ishimwe - RBA Musanze Peace Nicodem Nzahoyankuye - Magic FM New Artiste/ Group of the Year Apophia Posh Jado Sinza Prosper Nkomezi Toussaint Shema Yves Rwagasore Choir of the Year Gisubizo Ministries Healing Worship Team Power of the Cross Ministries Shalom Choir True Promises Ministries Song of the Year Imvugo Yiwe - Gentil Bigizi Ndaguhetse - Gisubizo Ministries Sinzibagirwa - Israel Mbonyi Super Power - Power of the Cross Ministries Yesu Ni Sawa - Beauty For Ashes Female Artiste of the Year Assumpta Umuganwa Dinah Uwera Diana Kamugisha Stella Manishimwe The Pink Male Artiste of the Year Arsene Tuyi Gentil Bigizi Israel Mbonyi Bosco Nshuti Papy Clever