A new entertainment event dubbed Zimbabwe Arts Festival (ZARTS) that aims to promote local talent was officially launched on Saturday night at the National Art Gallery Sanctuary Café. The two-day festival will be held from December 8 to 9 at the Alexandra Sports Club and was founded by Rumbidzai Mudenge who is daughter of the late educationist and former Minister of Foreign Affairs Stan Mudenge. Courtesy of Bumris Entertainment, the event will have musicians like Winky D, Ammara Brown, Jah Prayzah, Oliver Mtukudzi and Sulumani Chimbetu among others. Speaking at the launch, Mudenge said the purpose of the festival is to appreciate all forms of art in Zimbabwe. "The aim of this festival is to give a platform for both renowned and upcoming artists to showcase their proudly African talents over a two-day extravaganza. We have a lot of people who have unique gifts in arts that must be recognised. It has always been my passion to support local talent and this is one of the projects I have embarked on with my entertainment company," she said. Mudenge said there will be over will be over 50 artistes from all over the country who will participate during the festival and urged the public to support her vision. "It should be noted the festival is not about music only but it also caters several forms of art that include fine art, film, sculpting, graphics, dance and fashion to name a few. The festival caters for people of all tastes including children and starts in the morning until late and advanced tickets are going for $10 (covering for two days) for adults and for kids its $2 and tickets are available at our offices located at Joina City Mall," said Mudenge. At the launch several musicians both established and upcoming took turns to entertain the guests just to give a foretaste of what they will deliver at the festival. The likes of Extra Large, Trevor Dongo, BaShupi, Dzadza D, Chikwata 263 and Discord of Mafriq gave well-polished acts as they dished out their popular hits.