The Africa Society of the National Summit on Africa and the World Affairs Council of Pittsburgh, in partnership with Duquesne University, will host 250 Pittsburgh area high school students for a Teach Africa Youth Forum: Global Perspectivesprogram on Monday November 13, 2017. The program will be held on the Duquesne University campus from 8:00 am to 2:00 pm. Teach Africa, The Africa Society’s flagship program, educates and informs students about the continent of Africa and their counterparts in African nations, provides exposure for them to policymakers and leading experts in many fields, and demonstrates that Africa education cuts across the curriculum. Ambassador Dr. Kwame Bawuah- Edusei will provide the keynote address during the morning plenary session. In addition to learning about foreign policy as it pertains to Africa, these high school student leaders will learn about the issues of Global Security, Media and Technology, Trade and Investment, Food Security and Global Health from leading faculty members in their respective fields. Interactive afternoon workshops will be convened for students by expert practioners and members of the Diaspora to provide students a real world views of global issues influencing U.S. – Africa relations as they related to the selected countries: Nigeria, Ghana, Democratic Republic of Congo, Kenya and Somali. During this day-long global learning experience, students will examine their perceptions about the Continent and reflect on a balanced overview of different aspects of life in various African nations while developing a sense of global consciousness. Students will have an opportunity to interact with their peers in Maseru, Lesotho via video conferencing. Launched in 2002, Teach Africa is intended to create goodwill ambassadors for the United States through the provision of knowledge so as to strengthen future U.S.-Africa relations.  The program has reached 10,000 students and trained more than 3,100 administrators and educators. The mission of The Africa Society is to be the premier entity that engages and educates Americans about the countries comprising the continent of Africa and to create, through partnerships, a better understanding of its peoples, diverse cultures, histories and economies. Chevron is the primary sponsor of the Teach Africa program in Pittsburgh and has been instrumental in the successes realized through this initiative. Contact Sarah Kuruswo, 202-232- 3862 Email: skuruswo@africasummit.org