American gospel entertainer Don Moen has slammed rumours that he had divorced his wife of 44 years, Laura Lee Szuchna. Moen is in the country for his much-awaited concert that will be held on Saturday evening at the Christ Is The Answer Ministries (Citam), Karen in Nairobi. "I am happily married and my wife is the greatest support to my ministry. I won't even talk about the other rumour about me being dead because as you can see, I am alive." The celebrated singer, who has gained worldwide recognition for his praise and worship songs, will be the main attraction the six-hour worship concert, which has been organised by Ace and Lights events. Speaking to journalists at Sankara Hotel on arrival, Mr Moen, who is on his second visit to Kenya said he was excited to be back in the country after his first visit in May 2015. "I love Kenya and it tops the list of the many countries I have visited," he said at the news conference. LENNY LEBLANC During Saturday's concert, he is slated to perform alongside his friend and worship singer, Lenny Leblanc. Other guest performances will include Mercy Masika and Rebekah Dawn, Adawnage and The Worship Factory. Associated with some of the best worship songs, the 66-year-old singer-cum-producer developed his talent while attending Oral Roberts University in Oklahoma and had worked for Integrity Music for 20 years before quitting to concentrate in his music. The international gospel singer who has established a solid base with fans of different ages is popular for giving the world songs such as God Will Make A Way, Thank You, God Is Good All The Time and Give Thanks. Unbeknown to many, the prolific songwriter, wrote the hit of all time, God Will Make A Way at a time when his family was struggling with grief. "My sister in law and her husband had just lost a son through a grisly road accident and other three children had been seriously injured. As I was aboard a plane to go and comfort them, I kept wondering what to tell them and that is how the song came to life. I am amazed that the song has impacted millions in the world," said Moen. NUMEROUS COLLECTIONS His other popular songs include Blessed Be the Name of the Lord, Crown Him, Lord, and I Offer My Life to You, I Want to Be Where You Are, Celebrate, Jesus, Great Is Thy Faithfulness, All We like Sheep and Your Steadfast Love. Over the years, Moen has released numerous collections of songs winning accolades along the way, among them six Dove awards. His first album worship with Don Moen was released in 1987. While working as the president for Integrity Music, Moen signed up some of the popular gospel artistes such as Darlene Zchesh, Paul Baloche, Mullen Randy Rothwell and Ron Kenoly.