Tanzanian musician Diamond Platnumz has made history becoming the first African artist signed under Universal Music Group to get 6x Platinum sales. The artist reached the milestone on his music single "Marry you." Tanzanian artist Nasibu Abdul Juma who is popularly known as Diamond Platnumz has become the first African artist signed under Universal Music Group to get 6x Platinum sales. The artist reached the milestone on his music single "Marry you." Diamond is one of the biggest musicians in east Africa and has won and been nominated for numerous awards such as Africa Music video Awards, Channel O music Video Awards, HiPipo Music Awards, The Future Africa Awards is one of the highest earning artists in east Africa. The bongo artist sings mostly in Kiswahili and has collaborated with various artists such as Davido, Iyanya, P-Square, and Ne-Yo. His 2017 single Marry You in which he featured American singer Ne-Yo won him the Universal 6x Platinum award. In February, he signed with Universal Music, becoming the first east African to do so. Diamond took to his Instagram page and wrote: "Today have become the first African Artist Signed under Universal Music Group to get 6x Platinum Sales on My Single #MarryYou ft @Neyo... .. on behalf of my team & @Neyo would like to thank all the fans & Media Around the world #MarryYouDN #MaryYou #AboyFromTandale (Leo nimekuwa msanii wa kwanza wa kiafrika alosainiwa Universal Music Group kufikisha Mauzo ya nyimbo yake Platinum Mara sita Mfululizo kupitia nyimbo ya #MarryYou nilomshirikisha @Neyo... . kwa niaba ya Team yangu na @neyo tungependa kuwashukuru Mashabiki na Media zote Ulimwenguni... 🙏) #ABoyFromTandale". The boy from Tandale as Diamond often calls himself got congratulation messages from his wife Zari: "Congrats babe @diamondplatnumz for becoming the first African Artist signed under Universal to hit Six times platinum sales on your #MarryYou ft @Neyo Record! Am super Proud!" Diamond's popularity and love from his fans is beyond Tanzania and east Africa. In the Democratic Republic of Congo thousands of fans were outside his hotel room when he went to the country for a concert. With collaborations from musicians from other parts of the continent, Diamond has increased his fan base greatly.