Nairobi — As President Uhuru Kenyatta assumes office to serve his second and final term, the his biggest challenge will be uniting Kenyans ,fighting corruption and bringing down the cost of living. This is according to supporters of both Jubilee and the National Super Alliance who agree that the extended electioneering period brought more divisions in the country as well as drive up the cost of living. Those interviewed by Capital FM News say they want President Kenyatta to lower the cost of living, create employment opportunities and deliver his promises as outlined in the Jubilee manifesto. "The President should first work towards national cohesion. It is clear that the country is divided and for the country to move forward he has to make an all inclusive government," said Moses Wanjala. The economy is undoubtedly sluggish following a prolonged election period which scared away investors followed by mass retrenchments. Some business people are counting losses after their businesses were destroyed and looted during protests. This being the President's second and last term, Kenyans say he should leave a legacy and retire as a statesman. "This being his last term the President should leave a legacy; he should at least make sure that when he leaves office he is a statesman," said Ann Njeri. Jubilee's 2013 manifesto was a very promising document that was built on three pillars - Umoja, Uchumi and Uwazi. The manifesto was full of promises which excited most of Kenyans who voted for Jubilee, with the hope that the regime would deliver on its promises. The Jubilee team highlighted various strategies, programs and policies they intent to roll out if elected with key issues being on agriculture, infrastructure, and health and education sectors. The Manifesto focused on issues affecting Youth and Women and creation of jobs. But did jubilee deliver? Kenyatta declared there was need to find long term solutions to the land question, particularly through issuance of title deeds to owners of community land, so as to enable the people use the resource to create wealth and job opportunities. The President had promised to issue three million title deeds in five years. During his first term President Kenyatta issued thousands of title deeds in the Coast region. He also issued title deeds to Nubians living in Kibra and a further 6,000 to Trans-Nzoia residents. President Kenyatta's first term saw key projects such as Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) come to a completion which earned him praises from within and across borders. Electricity connectivity has seen 70 per cent households get connected to power. However Kenyatta's term had its challenges and was criticized by the Opposition who believe that the government did not deliver. Unemployment remains a major challenge among the youth as Kenya has the highest unemployment rate in East Africa. Government officials have been accused of massive corruption. The government has also been accused of borrowing too much. Jubilee's 2017-2022 manifesto is a continuation of the 2013 manifesto which included promises of free laptops for all class one pupils in public schools, the construction of stadia, free maternity care in all public health facilities, the equipping of counties with the latest in health technology and the 'last mile' electricity connectivity project. Most of which President Kenyatta and Ruto said they've achieved during their campaigns seeking for another five-year-term.