Organisers of a voter registration campaign concert that will be held at Hellenic Sports Club this afternoon have secured shuttle buses that will ferry students from various colleges around the city to the venue. In addition to carrying students, there will be a lot of fun on the buses as performing artistes will get personal with their fans during the journeys to the Sports Club. Each shuttle will have one of the performing musicians allowing them to mix and mingle with their fans. All students with voter registration slips will be able to get on the buses for free and enter the concert for free. More than 10 buses have been secured for the process and they will go to all colleges in Harare. The buses will go to colleges like University of Zimbabwe, Harare Polytechnic, Harare Institute of Technology, Belvedere Teachers College, Morgan Zintech, Zesa Training Centre and TelOne Training Centre. The show will have top musicians Killer T, EX Q, Cindy, Sandra Ndebele, Trevor D, Sanii Makhalima, Boom Berto and Gary Tight while Misred and Comic Pastor will spice the event as MCs. The concert is running under the theme "Register, Elect and Engage" and requires a person to bring his or her registration slip to get into the show. A lot is expected at the afternoon show, as several chanters will clash mesmerising music lovers. Organised by Election Resource Centre, the concert is meant to educate masses on the ongoing Biometric Voter Registration process around the country. Killer T and EX Q have collaboration "Nhema" that is likely to steal the show. Killer T through his manager Kudzai Biston said they were ready to be part of the show. "It is always an exciting moment sharing stage with EX Q as he has always been on top of his game. This is a concert that will thrill many music lovers. This one is a special afternoon show that requires us to perfect our act. There are also few new songs that will be played on the same afternoon," he said. Ndebele said she has done a lot to improve her choreography and she was up to do her best at the show. "I am coming to Harare after a long time and fans should expect fireworks at the event. They should come and see us performing," he said. She believes her act is enough to convince multitudes that she is still a force to reckon with. Trevor D has for years managed to give the best performances and this afternoon he will be doing his best.