Kasane — The 2017 Botswana Travel and Tourism Expo held in Kasane has seen an intensified marketing of tourism destinations in the country. Industry experts who have done research on a particular tourist attraction site shared their experiences of respective places through presentations, hence marketing the destinations. Some of Botswana's tourism destinations that were promoted included the Okavango Delta, Chobe National Park, Linyanti, Savuti, Central Kgalagadi Game Reserve, Makgadikgadi, Nxai Pans, Tuli Block and Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park. One of the tourism operators, Mr Grant Reed advised that the best time to visit Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park was January to April because that was the period tourists could see most of the species there. He also advised that vehicles to be used in the park should be strictly 4X4 model because of the type of soil, and that drivers should employ extra vigilance on the road. The world's largest inland delta, Okavango Delta was also one of the exciting topics during presentations where people showed keen interest through asking questions. Wetlands anthologists showed attractive pictures and video clips of the Okavango Delta, hence advertising the destination. Another site, Nxai pan, a dry lake of 40 square kilometres was said to be home to the widest range of species found in different ecosystems of Botswana. The months of July to October were said to be the high season for Nxai Pan, and that tourists could see more animals during the high season. In its 5th year, the Botswana Travel and Tourism Expo is a meeting place between global and Botswana based tourism operators. The expo provides an opportunity for Botswana travel and tour operators to network and meet on a one on one basis with their global counterparts to discuss trade. It is also an opportunity for the Botswana global network to appreciate first-hand Botswana's tourism product. Botswana Tourism Organisation PR and communications manager, Ms Keitumetse Setlang said the expo has seen an increase in both local and foreign tourism operators. She said this years event attracted 108 local and 115 foreign tourism operators. Source : BOPA