Yola — Vice President Yemi Osinbanjo was in Yola Tuesday to have an on the spot assessment of the war ravaged areas in Numan and Demsa Local Government Areas of the state and vowed that the federal government must find definite and permanent solutions to farmers/herders crisis in different parts of the country to maintain value to leadership in the country. Osinbanjo , who visited Dong ,and other areas ravaged by the FulanI Farmers clashstated in Numan town while on condolence visit to the people and government of Adamawa state over the recent attack on Numan and Demsa local government areas enjoined the warring factions to bury their guns for peace to reign in the areas. He said the violence is triggered by human being,needs human solutions for peace to prevail permanently . According to him,nobody benefits from lost of lives and property,especially women and children and urged families of those killed to take solace. The Vice President,described his visit to the state as sad one,noted that his visit is to begin the process of solving the crisis once and for all. Osinbanjo said government would provide intervention support to the victims "My visit to Adamawa state is to begin a process,that would solve this problem once and for all . "We must seek definite and permanent solutions to this crisis,nobody can benefit from lost of lives especially children and women. "I have studied this problem especially in Adamawa state,this is long run problem. "This is human problem,it is not caused by spirit,so it must have human solution, that is why we are called upon as leaders, to make sure that the solution works not for now,but for ever. Earlier,Hama Bachama,Homun Honest Irmiya Stephen,, appealed for deployment of more security personnels to the area. The Royal father equally urge government to reinstate area command,of the Nigerian police force removed from the town in 2009 to avert future ocurance. Responding Gov. Muhammadu Jibrilla in his welcome remarks thanked the Vice President for identifying with the people of the state.at such a trying period. Hama Bata Alhamdu Teneke responding in Dong, said 48 persons were buried,scores missing and many injured. Teneke appealed urgent food,shelter and drug supports to the victims of the attack. The Vice President visited Dong,Bomni and Bolong villages where the recent attacks took place. Numan and its environs remained deserted with virtually empty streets,as a result of the attack even as many more were still moving out of the areas affected by the conflict. ends