Arts and Culture Minister, Mr Nathi Mthethwa, in partnership with the National Museum, Bloemfontein is proud to announce the launch exhibition of the National Art Bank under the theme: "Emerging Visions: Towards a Sustainable Economic Development of the Visuals Arts." The launch will take place on Tuesday, 12 December 2017 at the Oliewenhuis Art Museum, Bloemfontein in the Free State at 09h00. The National Art Bank seeks to identify, procure and curate contemporary visual art works from emerging and established South African artists. Such art works will be leased to targeted organisations, particularly South African government bodies, institutions, parastatals, private sectors, South African embassies internationally, etc. The Programme will further contribute to audience development and consumption of South African art. "We believe that National Art Bank programme will further promote, support and supplement the income of contemporary South African artists by creating a market for their work and moving them from a second economy to a first economy. By so doing, Social Cohesion and Nation Building will be stimulated. This will also provide the opportunity for South African artists to receive exposure locally as well as internationally. The Arts Bank is also envisaged to be a financially self-supporting entity that will invest and build a catalogue of South African contemporary art," said Minister Mthethwa. The launch exhibition is the culmination of a year-long process of research with emerging artists, and features work by Audrey Anderson, Ilené Bothma, Bevan de Wet, Sandile Goje, Sifiso Gumede, Sipho Gwala, Alexandra Karakashian, Banele Khoza, Lonwabo Kilani, Asanda Kupa, Azael Langa, Dale Lawrence, Lizza Littlewort, Sthenjwa Luthuli, Phillip Mabote, Shenaz Mahomed, Amita Makan, Joel Matladi, Franli Meintjes, John Mfupi, Manyatsa Monyamane, Makamatele Moramaga, Mashudu Nevhutalu, Leanne Shakenovsky, Jan Tshikhuthula, Jeanette Unite, Wessel van Huyssteen and Sthembiso Zwane. "As the Department, we also believe that this programme will serve as an avenue to supplement the income of visual artists by nurturing production and job creation in the visual arts sector. This will further promote and create a national and international marketing tool for South African art," concluded Minister Mthethwa. The National Art Bank forms part of a series of many programmes under the Mzansi Golden Economy (MGE) strategy which promotes job creation and seeks to increase the contribution of arts and culture to sustainable economic development. The exhibition will run from Tuesday, 12 December 2017 to Sunday, 28 January 2017 at the Oliewenhuis Art Museum Issued by: Department of Arts and Culture