Lagos — Nigerian dancehall star, Damini Ogulu, also known as Burna Boy, was, yesterday, docked before an Ikeja Magistrate's Court by Lagos State Police, over his alleged role in the robbery of a fellow musician, Abiye David Jombo, also known as Mr 2Kay, in October. Mr 2Kay, who was allegedly robbed at gunpoint in his hotel room at the Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, on October 22, during the Buckwyld 'N' Breathless concert, where he also performed, lost some items to the attackers. The Police had invited Burna Boy in connection with the robbery. But he appeared after two months. He was subsequently arrested and detained after he turned himself in. Recall that some suspects, including Joel Kantiock, Burna Boy's Road Manager, were paraded among those arrested for the robbery. Others were Balogun Ademola, Obinna Igwe and Tunmise Omotore, who were subsequently arraigned in court. Charged Burna Boy, who was taken to court yesterday, was arraigned on a count-charge, bordering on 'accessory after the fact' and 'conspiracy' brought against him, to which he pleaded not guilty. According to the prosecutor, Inspector N. Peters, Burna Boy did not disclose what he knew about the robbery. However, Burna Boy's lawyer, Bright Idahosa, asked the court to grant his client bail in the most liberal terms, a move which was not opposed by the Police prosecutor. The lawyers that represented Eko Hotel and Suites and Mr 2Kay's record label, Grafton Entertainment, however, opposed the bail application, while insisting that Burna Boy is a key witness in another case in which the main suspects in the robbery case against Mr 2Kay are standing trial. Specifically, Tayo Reju, holding watching brief for Eko Hotel and Suites, pointed out that should Burna Boy be granted bail, it would jeopardise the other case at a Lagos State Magistrate's Court. The presiding magistrate, Mrs B. O. Osunsanmi, after listening to both parties, granted Burna Boy bail of N100,000 with two responsible sureties, while the matter was adjourned till December 29 for trial to commence. There was, however, a mild drama as Burna Boy was shielded by security operatives, who prevented reporters from taking his pictures, while he was whisked away in an ash-coloured Toyota Sienna. According to the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Command, Imohimi Edgal, the suspects were paid N50,000 before the attack on Mr. 2Kay and another N50,000 was paid directly by Burna Boy after the attack. 'Lost items' Mr.2Kay was allegedly robbed of his Swiss Audemars Piguet, an automatic gold wristwatch, valued at $25,000; gold jewellery valued at N1.5 million; an iPhone 7, valued at N380,000, a Samsung Galaxy S7, valued at N240,000; Samsung Galaxy S5, worth N110,000; Adidas shoes, N75,000; three bottles of perfume, N180,000, and a cash sum of N45,000.