Radio presenter Adelle Onyango has been causing waves after she started a campaign against rape and online harassment. She was subsequently chosen to represent Kenya in this year's Children's Global Media Summit in United Kingdom where she had the honor of meeting Prince William and Catherine the Duchess of Cambridge. She talked to Nairobi News about her experience at the summit and meeting with the Duchess of Cambridge. What was the major take home lesson from attending and speaking at the summit? That there's a bigger world full of so many possibilities and thirsty for the digital content I make. Sometimes when we get caught up in the bubble that is our country we forget that. Who are some of the people you met? Kate Middleton which was amazing, she was really into finding out what content is coming out of Kenya. Michelle Guthrie the MD of ABC, Alex Okosi the Executive Vice President Of Viacom International Media Do you feel like people are now more aware to the dangers of cyber bullying? Definitely. The panel I was part of was discussing that and was extremely vibrant with views from different corners of the world, but they all echoed the same sentiments that it's time to tame that monster. You met the Duchess of Cambridge. How was it like? I was nervous. When I got the email asking if I could be one of the delegates to receive her and Prince William I thought I was dreaming. And then it happened and they're both really humble and genuinely interested in content for Generation U! What did you talk about? She was interested in Kenya and if we faced the same challenges as them in terms of content regulation for children, telling our own stories and if we had any solutions they could borrow from us! As a BBC 100 Woman, what are some of the experiences have you had thanks to the title? I don't think the title has led to experiences per se. Because I created Brunch with Adelle right after being named one of the 100 but that was my effort and creation. Also, going to the summit was based on loud conversations on Cyber bullying I've had online that caught the organizers attention. What do you intend to do going forward with your social activism? I plan on honoring my late mother through a really fun collaborative project, expanding AdelleTV and a lot more. What is that one thing you would like to tell a troll or cyberbully? To be better and grow up. The world has enough stress you shouldn't be one. Deal with your internal issues instead of projecting them on us. But also those cheering online bullies need to log off and seek a better understanding of themselves they are part of the problem. Someone once sent you a direct message on social media apologizing for trolling you, what was your response? I told them to be better now that they knew better!