A police constable stationed at Unit Fairbridge in Bulawayo has been charged under the Official Secrets Act after he allegedly sent on WhatsApp platform an internal memo about damaging of Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) Biometric Voter Registration (BVR) machines by soldiers last Sunday. Some drunken soldiers allegedly pounced on cops who were manning a BVR station at Victoria Falls International Airport and harassed them before pouring water on the BVR machines. This is according to a memorandum that circulated on social media prepared by Dispol for Victoria Falls, Chief Superintendent Jairos Chiwona. The internal memo (314/07/242/17) was dated 10 December. Constable Marshal Musarara, 34, who had been deployed to the border town's Police Internal Security Intelligence was supposed to send the memo through police channels to his superiors in Bulawayo but allegedly shared it with members of the public on WhatsApp. The memo went viral. He appeared before Victoria Falls magistrate Rangarirai Gakanje charged with violating the Official Secrets Act. Musarara, who was represented by Givemore Muvhiringi of Muvhiringi and Partners, was released on $50 bail, to 5 January. As part of his bail condition, Musarara was ordered to surrender his travelling documents as well as to reside at Cement Side in Bulawayo and not to interfere with witnesses until the matter is finalised. Prosecutors want to prove that Musarara failed to take proper care of the memo resulting in it being seen by members of the public, contrary to laid down ZRP operational procedures in circular 1/2016. He allegedly uploaded it on WhatsApp yet he was supposed to send to his superiors at Unit Fairbridge resulting in the document circulating on social media. "The accused on 10 December was given a ZRP memorandum 579/17 by Constable Nkatazo of Police Internal Security Intelligence (PISI) Victoria Falls to send to Assistant Inspector Ncube at ZRP Fairbridge, Bulawayo through official police communication systems. He instead uploaded onto WhatsApp and it went viral as members of the public shared it on various social media platforms," said the prosecutor Takunda Ndovorwi.