As people across the continent get set to celebrate the exceptional young talents who have led the charge in diverse spheres of endeavour, intended guests can't seem to hide their excitements over The Future Awards Africa 2017 invites. Designed to represent maps of states in Nigeria, guests are expected to guess the states represented with their invites. Toke Makinwa, a Nigerian radio personality, television host, blogger, and author known for her book, On Becoming, co-hosting The Morning Drive on Rhythm 93.7 FM and her YouTube vlog series Toke Moments, reacted on her instagram page this way: "Can't wait for the 9th of December for #TheFutureAwardsAfrica2017 and just received the super cool invite which I got the answer." Mai Atafo, a Nigerian bespoke fashion tailor who caught the attention of the fashion industry for the creation of his brand, Mai Atafo and by enrolling the Leeds-based Savile Row Academy to further train as a tailor, reacted on his intagram page like this: "I am excited. I got my invitation and state right too. It's always cool to celebrate the new generation of Africans." Abovi Ugboma also known as Bovi is a Nigerian comedian, a director, producer, actor, and writer from Delta State, has organised popular stand-up comedy concerts like Bovi Man on Fire across the globe. He reacted this way: "Super excited about #TheFutureAwardsAfrica2017 on the 9th of December and just received the super cool invite which I got the answer" The 12th edition of the Awards is set for tomorrow, December 9, 2017 at the Federal Palace Hotel, Lagos. The Future Awards Africa 2017 is powered by The Future Project, with support from Ford Foundation and refreshed by 7Up. The Future Awards Africa has been called the 'Nobel Prize for Young Africans', and the 'most important youth awards' by Forbes. It is a set of prizes given annually to celebrate and accelerate innovation, creativity and enterprise amongst young Africans aged 18 - 31. It has produced over 150 winners and over 1550 nominees since its first edition in 2006. It is presented in conjunction with The Future Project, which has a mandate to build empowered citizens across Africa, through (inclusive) enterprise and (active) citizenship. This focus on Human Capital Development is informed by our value proposition: Africa's growth needs a generation of young people who are gainfully employed and able to demand and secure better leadership. Our projects include Aiki.ng, an employability portal presented with Microsoft; the Nigeria Symposium for Young & Emerging Leaders, #StartupsAfrica, Intern4Jobs, YMonitor.org presented with National Endowment for Democracy (NED), The Future Enterprise Support Scheme and The Future Awards Africa, described as 'The Nobel Prize for Young Africans'. Founded by the ChudeJideonwo and Adebola Williams, TFP is supervised by a Global Board of Advisors drawn from Africa, Europe, North America and the Middle East, including the Coordinating Minister of the Nigerian Economy, Dr.NgoziOkonjo-Iweala; Senior Economic Advisor with the Open Society Foundations, Dr.ObiageliEzekwesili; co-founder of ONE, Jamie Drummond and the Chief of Cabinet with the Africa Development Bank, Anne Kabagambe.