Amnesty International has demanded Nigerian government investigate allegations against the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), an outfit of the Nigerian Police Force for human rights abuses. It comes after an online campaign #EndSARS highlighted ruthless abuse of human rights by the outfit that's meant to fight crime. "The scale of the reaction to this incident shows that the concerns of the Nigerian people are reaching boiling point," said Osai Ojigho, director of Amnesty International Nigeria. "All incidents of violence meted out by this notorious police unit must be independently investigated, and those found to be responsible must be prosecuted in fair trials." Amnesty's response follows an online video showing the aftermath of an alleged killing of a young man by SARS operatives. "The #EndSARS hashtag is rightly gaining the attention of the police and Nigerian government and now officials must do more to end these horrendous abuses of power," says Ojigho. "Amnesty International highlighted such abuses more than a year ago and yet these shocking incidents still continue. Restructuring SARS is not enough, the government must take concrete steps to protect Nigerians." Restructuring SARS In response to #EndSARS, police authorities have bowed to pressure to restructure the outfit. A restructured SARS will now have a commissioner of police heading a federal Anti-Robbery Squad nationwide under the Department of Operations, Force Headquarters Abuja. Commands in Zones, states and divisions will operate anti-crime units, crime prevention and control squads. Federal SARS will operate in states and zones under the Commissioner of Police at the Force Headquarters. And at least a CSP no less than a superintendent will head a federal SARS in states and zones nationwide. In response to the outcry, an X-squad is mandated to investigate compliance and abuse by SARS outfits. In addition, SARS members will undergo training in police duties and human rights. Not giving up But #EndSARS is nowhere near giving up. The movement sparked a response from police authorities. Torrents of allegations detailing abuse have come in over the last four days. The allegations detail abuse, forceful confiscation of identity cards, women stripped naked and accused of being prostitutes, men forced to give up their phones and accused of involvement in internet scams-and policemen forcing them to ATMs to withdraw thousands of naira in settlement. On its official twitter handle @policeNG, the Nigerian police force defended the essence of SARS and released a hotline where aggrieved Nigerians can report abuse by SARS. The response generated more than 1,700 comments, most of them critical of the police, and over 1000 retweets. Re: #EndSARS If u've contact with SARS personnel and u've any complaints about deir actions or inactions, u're at liberty 2 report deir conducts 2 various platforms provided by d NPF to deal with unprofessional conduct of members of d Force rather dan call 4 end SARS. 08057000001 - Nigeria Police Force (@PoliceNG) December 4, 2017 Identity of men claiming to be SARS agents is at the heart of the controversy. In one incident, a project tracking officer at BudgIT Nigeria, Moses Motoni, is reported to have been arrested in Kaduna by SARS personnel disguised as DHL delivery men, for an offence yet to be disclosed. In another development, one of the major voices demanding the scrapping of SARS, Segun Awosanya, is under investigation for collusion with political actors. Police spokespersons suspect him for mingling with politicians, citing the #ENDSARS campaign is politically motivated. The authorities sent out photos of Awosanya with House speaker Yakubu Dogara as indicative of his political ties but came short of accusing politicians of backing the #ENDSARS campaign. Awosanya said he took the photos with Dogara when his team submitted a petition for the scrapping of SARS to the Speaker in September. Police spokesman Jimoh Moshood has responded to #ENDSARS campaign online, calling for abuses to be reported on several platforms-on twitter, facebook, BBM, by phone calls and emails-rather than call for an end to SARS. Mounting abuse Allegations of extra-judicial killings, torture, wanton arrests for bribes and other menacing conducts flooded social media since Saturday, with citizens taking their rage to the Internet and demanding action. SARS is a special squad of police detailed to combat crime, especially robbery, kidnapping and cattle hustling. But experiences following #ENDSARS have opened up allegations of extreme abuse, extrajudicial killings, unlawful detentions. https://t.co/jv7WGiqCpA pic.twitter.com/kkfCUlu4uB - Adedokun Hadi GeDan (@iamgedan) December 4, 2017 This SARS are without identifications... They move in black vest, unregistered vehicles, before u say anything they have seized your phone, my blackberry and swift network still they their hand till tomorrow... May God help us all - #ENDSARS 🔫🔫 ❌❌❌ 🇳🇬 (@Kush_Oracle) December 4, 2017 Abeg always hide or delete all your post about #ENDSARS before leaving home. They will start searching people with twitter o. #EndSarsNow #EndSarsImpunity #EndSarsBrutality#ReformSARS This happened to my friend pic.twitter.com/8EFGtRVxNt - Adedokun Hadi GeDan (@iamgedan) December 4, 2017 This won't do, giving us a phone number won't correct the ones you have roaming the streets of Lagos harassing and killing Nigerian youths for making money at a young age #EndSars #EndSARSBrutality - kOkObOiOfFiCiAl (@iamkokoboi) December 4, 2017 Sir, my confusion is that.. I've been to kano and Maiduguri. I hardly see police Officers walking around wit ak47 (even with the threat of BH) what threat is in Lagos that we see ak47 everywhere with virtually all the police officers couple wit multiple check points? - habeebeth (@habeeb011) December 4, 2017 Thanks, but reflect deeply, look inwards. An ENTIRE nation speaks in unity. We want to be protected not harassed by people who think they are above the law. We can have a better police system if #EndSARS triggers SINCERE reforms within law and responsibility - Chief Doc Dannyboy (@dr_dannyjosh) December 4, 2017 Our lawyer @justempower send enuf letter to the IGP and the @PoliceNG_lagos commissioner on my case with SARS even tweet @PoliceNG_PCRRU that nite but till now. nothing have been done... Please pick my call and lets try ur #ReformSARS campaign - OLORUNLOYE| #EndSARS #Justiceforkudi (@naijapasito) December 4, 2017 I was a victim in one of the SARS in Ogun state and the arrested a yahoo boy....they guy told them he has no money until he finished with the client....I swear the SARS allowed the guy to finish his dael with the client in the police custody there at back of the counter..... - Adebayo Taofik Cornerstone Oluwasegun (@iam_cornerstoe) December 5, 2017 This whole #EndSARS saga started with a tweet. Trust me, a wrongly handled tweet can cause a saga 😀 it is beyond bad belle. Let them handle their tweets in a professional manner. ... Or borrow that EFCC guy that was handling their twitter account earlier this year. Just saying - Affi (@affi_bassey) December 5, 2017 Truth is all Police Officers aren't bad. It's just a case of rotten egg smelling more than the good egg. It's time to revamp the Nigerian Police, remove the officers with questionable characters from sensitive posts and take them for retaining - That_Segzy_Agent 🇳 (@FirstladyIbiene) December 4, 2017