Kampala — With the current expansion of Uganda's industry and manufacturing, transport, and services sectors in addition to a rapidly growing population,which are key consumers of petroleum products, one key question to ask those in charge is; Is Uganda finally moving towards a fuel-secure destination? One of the answers to this question is the new glittering face of Jinja Storage Terminal (JST), a government facility at Walukuba village, Jinja Municipality, in Eastern Uganda. It is a 30 million litre fuel reserve facility which was renovated recently and re-launched by top government officials on Nov. 03. It has five tanks. The facility, which is supposed to store fuel to cushion the country from supply shocks, has for many years been poorly managed by government and contracted private companies. Experts say the cost of filling these tanks and thereafter ensuring safety and security of the reserves requires commitment of large budgets and a wealth of experience in the operation of petroleum terminals. This has been lacking. Sometime in 2007, Uganda recorded an over 100% jump in pump prices due to shortage of fuel caused by the bloody 2007 Kenyan post election violence that cut off importation of the product through Mombasa Port. In response, in 2012, government hired a private company; Hared Petroleum Limited (HPL), to operate the facility by storing at least 12 million litres of fuel as a minimum. However, HPL failed to live up to the terms and conditions of the contract, as it only managed to regularly store less than 50% of the required 12 million litres. This meant that the intended stock build up was not being achieved and consequently, the country could risk having a fuel crisis in the event private players also failed to stock above their normal stock. When the matter reached the floor of Parliament, government was forced to terminate HPL's contract and, on June 14, 2017, replaced it with One Petroleum Uganda Limited (OPL) to operate the facility under close supervision by government's company - Uganda National Oil Company (UNOC). Figures obtained by The Independent in the course of doing this story shows that so far the facility is up and running well. Fuel reserve stock kept in the facility has increased from 0.36 million litres in June 2017 to 13.64 million litres in October for both petrol and diesel, higher than the contractual 12 million litres directed by the government to One Petroleum and UNOC. When this reporter visited the facility in Jinja on Dec.06 at 8:50am, seven fuel trucks marked with 'petroleum transit goods' were packed outside the facility as one truck was seen exiting the premises. A few metres away from the facility were privately owned fuel storage tanks branded by Gapco and Total, with two trucks packed around nearby. Total is one of the nine fuel distributing companies listed as clients of the JST. The others are Vivo energy, Oryx, Stabex, Mogas, Hass and others. A man in his late 40s and resident of Walukuba village told The Independent that the facility is "now busy compared to some years back when a few trucks would be seen around coming and leaving the facility". "I don't know who owns that place but what I see these days are many trucks that come here on a daily basis," he said. A truck driver onsite told The Independent on condition of anonymity that on average each truck driver did two routes - transporting fuel to different service stations in Kampala and other areas. "We are not resting," the driver said, adding that several trucks arrive at the facility from Kenya daily. These revelations mean that JST is now operational and the country is making progress towards petroleum supply security. Officials at UNOC told The Independent that One Petroleum is charged with storing fuel and selling to private players on condition that a minimum of 12 million litres are maintained to serve in times of shock or supply disruption. John Friday, the assistant commissioner for petroleum supply at the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development said that government was planning to set up more of such strategic facilities across the country to store more than 100 million litres of fuel in the long run. "We have also just concluded a master plan for development of a major terminal near Kampala city. In the long term, such regional facilities are also to be developed in Western and Northern Uganda," Friday said. He said the financing and operation of petroleum terminals is a major undertaking, requiring large capital expenditure and experience in development and operation. "The Ministry has been working on the development of joint ventures with the private sector to advance this policy action," he said, adding, "It is in this spirit that the ministry handed over the JST to UNOC to ensure that it is managed in a commercial manner." The UNOC/One Petroleum joint venture took over the Jinja facility just before the recent general elections in Kenya, their immediate task being to refurbish and re-stock the JST. "We are happy to note that this has worked quite well with the terminal now rehabilitated and fairly stocked even without funding from the treasury," Friday said. One Petroleum Limited is backed by 50 million litres terminal capacity at Mbaraki in Mombasa and more than 100 bulk transportation trucks. Demand for petroleum products in Uganda is growing at 5% per annum, according to Friday. He said large scale storage facilities increased security of petroleum supply while also reducing the cost of storage per unit volume. He cited Uganda's land-locked counterparts - Rwanda which is pursuing an ambitious target of more than doubling strategic storage capacity to an equivalent of four months, up from the current 1.5 months; Zambia is also planning to scale up fuel reserves. Uganda also continues to explore medium to long term plans for the development of pipelines (and the attendant storage facilities) which will link the petroleum supply markets in the region. "As government, we will commercially evaluate these plans with the view to promoting their development," he said. Currently, Uganda consumes about 5.4 million litres of fuel per day, (which amounts to 162 million litres per month), according to the Ministry of Energy. Its installed storage capacity is about 104 million litres, of which 30 million litres (29%) capacity is at JST. The other 71% is constituted by various small capacity storage facilities. It is not clear how much fuel stock private companies have. But with JST reserving just above 12 million litres on regular basis, which is equivalent to two days consumption and far less than 162 million litres monthly consumption in addition to anticipated growth in demand, it means a lot more has to be invested in storage to sufficiently cushion the country from abrupt supply disruptions. It also signals that private players stock over 160 million litres of fuel to meet the monthly demand. It also means consumers are still exposed to price hikes in times of speculation, hoarding and other shocks. Role of private players Government requires private players to hold at least 10 days stock at service stations in relation to their market share. According to the Ministry of Energy, Uganda has 208 licensed petroleum product distributors, which control 71% of storage reserves. In an interview with The Independent, the Managing Director for Total Uganda Limited, one of the largest fuel retailers in Uganda, Florentin de Loppinot said as a land-locked country, Uganda remained exposed to low regional fuel availability which made continuity of supply a challenge. "Total respects the laws of Uganda and meets the 10 day reserve obligation on a national level," de Loppinot said. He said Total was continuously investing not only to adapt but anticipate market changes. "This means offering to our customers in Uganda energy-efficient fuels and guaranteeing them constant fuel availability," he said. Total has 127 service stations across the country plus 27 Gapco stations which it acquired in March this year. With the purchase of Gapco in Uganda, Tanzania and Kenya, de Lappinot said the company more than doubled its fuel storage capacity in East Africa. Going forward, he said local crude oil production, reduced fuel consumption initiatives and larger fuel storage capacities would help sustain Uganda's development. He said Total supported government's planned new oil terminal project in Buloba, Mpigi district, which he said will triple national storage capacity, thus avail more fuel and prevent supply shortages until the planned Hoima refinery is up and running. Gilbert Assi, the managing director of Vivo Energy Uganda Limited told The Independent that private fuel companies were in discussions with government to see what role they could play in building the new national 60,000 cubes of storage facility in Buloba. Assi said the company was investing heavily in storage facilities to ensure that supply remained stable, and recently increased storage capacity to more than 16 days stock - 17 million litres- with reserves located in Kampala and Mbale. "We have a very good appetite for investment in this country because we believe there are so many opportunities," he said, adding that government needs to give investment incentives to allow the private sector to invest more in storage facilities. Vivo has 132 fuel stations across the country. Peter Businge, the managing director of Oryx Uganda Limited told The Independent that the anticipated expansion of the economy in the coming years meant investments in storage facilities by government and the private sector was a must. "The government has good ideas but no proper implementation plan," Businge said, adding, "I see the mistakes made by Hared Petroleum going to be repeated with One Petroleum." He suggested that given that companies like Oryx are not in the business of storage but in distribution, fuel that goes to the JST should be taxed while exiting the facility and not at the entry from Kenya so as to boost the appetite for OPL to stock more petroleum products. Building UNOC capacity The Chairperson of the Parliament Committee on Natural Resources, Alex Byarugaba told The Independent that they would lobby for an increased budget for UNOC to complement OPL's effort of stocking fuel in the JST. "There should be a constant supply of fuel to buyers," Byarugaba said. "Even if we have our refinery... because of a big market in the region, fuel might be sold out and we remain with little ... so we should be looking at storing fuel not for two weeks but for more than even six months," he suggested. Sebastiano Rwengabo, a research fellow at The Advocates Coalition for Development and Environment (ACODE), told The Independent that as new storage facilities come, government needs to do sufficient due diligence on companies it is partnering with in managing storage facilities to avoid mistakes in the management of the Jinja facility. He said that if need be government should benchmark other countries on the proper management of the facilities and then build internal capacity for UNOC in terms of human resources, information technology and corporate governance to yield tangible results from the facilities. "... if we do that we will get a good deal from these facilities," he said. The facilities in question are linked to government's efforts to commercialize its 6.5 billion barrels of crude oil in the Albertine region of western Uganda by the year 2020. Government says some of the country's petroleum will be produced locally when a 30,000 barrels-per-day refinery (estimated to cost US$4bn) is constructed in Hoima district while bigger volumes will be sold to the international market through a crude oil export pipeline (estimated to cost US$3.55bn). Rwengabo said building skills and competencies for UNOC in all aspects would help the country attain petroleum security through the planned petroleum storage facilities. Timeline for the JST operationalisation May/June 2017 UNOC takes over JST JVA signed with OPL Consortium Transition period from Hared to OPL/UNOC July 2017 Graded access road leading to the facility Obtained URA bond to operate as bonded warehouse Recalibration of AGO Tank 1 Installed weighbridge Installed brand new 550KVA generator August 2017 Firefighting system reactivation Developed terminal access control system Renovated office, stores and ablution blocks September 2017 Serviced offloading and loading meters Branded product tanks Filled AGO Tank 1 October 2017 CCTV security upgrade ongoing Maintenance plan developed QC&OA apparatus installation The future Rail and barge connection QA&QC lab installation **** This article was done with funding from the African Centre for Media Excellence (ACME).