Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi has reiterated the call for citizens to obey the rules of the road. The Minister will on Tuesday launch the 2017 festive season road safety campaign. "During the launch and throughout the campaign, there will be a special focus on obeying all the rules of the road and alcohol abuse and drunken driving in particular," said Minister Maswanganyi. The launch will take place in Bela Bela, Limpopo, where the Minister will interact with community members on road safety issues. The Minister will be joined by Transport Deputy Minister Sindisiwe Chikunga, Public Works, Roads and Transport and Community Safety, Security and Liaison MECs from various provinces, Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of transport entities and other key transport stakeholders. As part of the official launch, the Minister will participate in a road safety walk and prayer that will be led by faith-based organisations and also visit the families of road crash victims. "The high number of road fatalities and injuries during the festive season and all-year round, remains a major concern for government. Young people between the ages of 20 and 34 constitute the majority of people who die on South African roads," said the Transport Department. To combat the scourge, government plans to place mobile testing stations at strategic points to test the roadworthiness of vehicles. Drivers will also be tested for alcohol levels at all road safety law enforcement activations. The department also plans to implement a no nonsense approach to public transport vehicles that are not roadworthy. "Minibus vehicles and buses account for about 10 percent of motor vehicles that get involved in fatal crashes on South Africa roads. However, the death toll from these vehicles is often high because of the number of people that they carry," said the department. Law enforcement officials will clampdown on vehicles without number plates that use this tactic to evade speed detection. "A trend has been noticed where number plates are removed from motor vehicles to evade speed detection," said the department. This is against the National Road Traffic Act regulation 35, which requires that number plates be affixed "in a manner that is not easily detachable" and "in such a manner that each letter and figure thereon is clearly legible".