ECOBANK Tanzania Ltd Managing Director Mwanahiba Mzee tries one of water taps at Hananasifu Primary School in Kinondoni, Dar es Salaam yesterday. Ecobank Tanzania Ltd has supported restructuring of the water supply system at the school to enable pupils have access to clean and safe water as part of activities to mark the Ecobank Day which is observed annually throughout all 33 Ecobank affiliates in Africa. (Photo: courtesy of Ecobank) ECOBANK Tanzania Limited has facilitated the restructuring of the water supply system at Hananasif Primary School in Kinondoni District enabling pupils' access to clean and safe water. The bank's Managing Director, Ms Mwanahiba said the facilitation is part of the activities to mark the Ecobank Day by reinstating water supply to the school's toilets and providing an additional water tank for sufficient water reserves. "Ecobank Day is observed annually throughout all 33 Ecobank affiliates in Africa with the aim of giving back and supporting the community it operates," she said. The donation comes in the wake of this year's Ecobank theme dubbed, 'Safe Water, Healthy Living,' "We were informed that Hananasif Primary School has a total of 728 pupils but their water pipes were blocked and only had one tap that served the whole school thus posing great health risk to pupils, teachers and workers," she said. Similarly, the bank also donated textbooks to the school and awarded the best performing pupils from standard one to six. This aimed at encouraging the pupils to work even harder and aim higher. "Ecobank realises the need to improve education and infrastructure in schools as a way of supporting the government's initiative in improving education," she said. In addition to the donation, the Ecobank Tanzania staff have also participated in a number of cleanliness activities including unclogging the school's drainage system and treating water in the school's borehole to ensure the pupils get clean water. On her part, the Hananasif Primary School Head Teacher, Idda Uisso commended the bank's efforts in supporting the school to get clean water. "With the tank donation we are now sure of clean and reliable water for our pupils and staff," she said. Ecobank is now in its 8th year in Tanzania and has branches in Dar es Salaam, Arusha and Mwanza.