Adelle Onyango, recently named among BBC's 100 women, is representing Kenya in this year's Children Global Media Summit at Manchester, UK. The summit kicked off on Tuesday bringing together creatives, technology innovators, policymakers, executives and thought leaders from across the globe. This year's focus will be to inform and redesign the future of media for Generation Unlimited (Generation U) and explore the impact that digital technology will have in children's future. Adelle, popularly known for her bubbly conversations on KISS 100, has in the past run campaigns championing for the empowerment of women, children and the less fortunate in society. She has a robust social media platform #TeamADELLE through which she mentors and inspires young people to maximize their potential and achieve their dreams. Her nomination to the BBC 100 Women can be attributed to her activism and commitment to push the agenda of empowered, liberated and safer societies particularly for women and children. WILL RECEIVE PRINCE Adelle is among the delegates set to receive Prince William and Kate Middleton, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge who will be attending the BBC-curated summit. Prince William will deliver a keynote speech on children's mental health on Wednesday. Major global brands such as ABC, Facebook, Netflix, Viacom Africa and many others are also represented at the summit which will end on Friday. Adelle took to Twitter to express her excitement about representing Kenya as a guest speaker in Manchester at the Children's Global Media Summit. On her arrival at Manchester, UK, she revealed her delight in being part of conversations that would ensure online safety and media-relevant education programs for the next generation. When Adelle got listed on BBC 100 women in October, she assured her fans that she would use the opportunity as a global platform to push for the agenda for empowerment. As one of the global panellists in the summit, Adelle is taking on the world to push the agenda for innovation, education, empowerment, freedom and entertainment for Generation U. The Children's Global Media Summit, formally known as World Summit on Media for Children, was founded in 1995 and is held every three years in different parts of the world. It is hosted by independent groups and organisations that adhere to the summits mandate of providing quality media for children. The 2017 summit is unique in that for the first time, the content of the event is being curated by the BBC in conjunction with diverse academic institutions, policymakers and broadcast partners to create a rich program that will reflect the world of media through eyes of a young global audience.