The music industry the world over is characterised by healthy competition which puts artistes on their toes to churn out good music for the listening pleasure of their fans, remain relevant, and as well as make a fortune. The Nigerian music industry is not left out in this regard as it is characterised by even more dynamics that distinguish it from other music industries. Potpourri attempts a comparison of Nigeria's top sensational music divas, Yemi Alade and Tiwa Savage via their achievements so far in 2017. Following the success of her sophomore album 'Mama Africa' in 2016, a stellar 10-track EP titled 'Mama Afrique' in 2017, and a world tour which she recently concluded, Afro-pop songstress, Yemi Alade has made a well-deserved mark in the Nigerian, African and international music space. For the Johnny crooner, 2017 has been a successful year musically and otherwise and she is not resting on her oars. She seems to be on a mission to claim bragging rights over her female colleagues in the music game, especially acclaimed queen of Nigerian pop music, Tiwa Savage, as she is set to breath an air of fresh music with the release of her third studio album titled 'Black Magic', a 15-track album including her 2017 hit songs 'Knack Am', 'Single & Searching', 'Heart Robber', among others. Looking back at her musical achievements so far in 2017, it may be right to say Mavin queen, Tiwa Savage, has been taking baby steps, compared to Yemi Alade. Like she was on a secret mission, apart from releasing hit songs like 'Knack Am', Heart robber', 'Charliee' and 'Single & Searching', Yemi Alade dropped mind blowing visuals to most of her old songs, a move music pundits have argued to be in the right direction as it reminded her fans of her 2016 hit songs. At the 3rd Annual African Entertainment Awards USA (AEAUSA), held at Cicely Tyson Community East Orange America on Saturday, October 21, 2017, Yemi Alade who was nominated in four different categories won four awards at the event. She won awards for Best Female Single, Best Female Artist of the Year, International Artist of the Year and Best Album of the Year for her 'Mama Africa album. Not only did she win awards, the New Jersey General Assembly commended and honoured her for being dedicated and relentless as well as for meritorious record of service, leadership and commitment. This was written in a notice signed by the Speaker of the Assembly, Dana M Burley and the Speaker of the General Assembly, Vincent Prieto. On the other hand, Tiwa Savage's new EP, 'Sugarcane', a 6-track EP, drips of love tunes but with only two hit tracks, 'Ma Lo', featuring Wizkid and 'All Over'. Though she featured afro-pop stars Wizkid and Maleek Berry, the airplay her 2017 songs enjoys is far below compared to the airplay the songs on Yemi Alade's new EP enjoys. Yes, you may want to argue that Tiwa Savage was named in BBC's 100 Inspirational and Innovative Women's list for 2017, won the award for Best Female West Africa at AFRIMA 2017, award for Most Stylish Female Artiste Africa at the Abryanz Style and Fashion Awards (ASFAs) held at the Kampala Serena Hotel in Uganda on Friday December 8, 2017, and has performed at countless shows in and out of the country, Yemi Alade claims the bragging rights over her for having the nods of BET, MTV EMA and MOBO awards in 2017 alone. Both music divas have obviously had a successful musical outing in 2017 but retrospectively assessing the level of their successes, it is practically difficult to crown one of them queen of Nigeria music as they both seem to be on the same level judging by their hit songs, award nominations and awards won. Potpourri leaves the judgment to your discretion as we wish both singing sensations more feathers to their caps.