Maun — Ngamiland District has experienced population growth due to tourism activities as well as the opening of mines such as Khoemacau. Ngamiland District Council chairperson, Mr Duncan Enga revealed when launching his road map, that the tourism and mining activities had attracted a lot of people to the district, which resulted in shortage of resources to cater for their needs. The district has a total of 149 755 people as per the Housing and Population Census of 2011 and that has shown an increase of 25 043 people from 124 712 in 2001, which represents 20 per cent. Even though the population has grown so tremendously, Mr Enga said the resources to cater for the needs of the community had shown a slow increase and urged fellow politicians, district leaders and key stakeholders to join hands and lobby for developments in the district. Reflecting on the year that was, he said the district had been funded for major projects lsuch as the construction of Mohembo Bridge, which is on-going and Shakawe hospital, among others. He said the projects were commendable developments, even though the roads were in a poor state, especially Gumare/Shakawe and Maun/Nata roads. Mr Enga was hopeful that in future, the said roads would be re-constructed as they were the ones that boosted the district and the entire country's economy. He requested stakeholders to join hands with him in uplifting the lives of the communities in the district. "I know that there is no law pertaining to the social corporate responsibility, but where there is a will, there is a way," he added. Some of the issues the chairperson intended to focus on based on the available resources include access to potable water, access to education by all even in settlements, Adopt-a-School initiative, waste collection and management, access to roads and revenue collection in the district. Mr Enga said he could only achieve those through support of stakeholders such as political leaders, staff, business community and the public at large. He emphasised the need to come up with new strategies that would work for the district as they embarked on a new chapter, citing partnership with the private corporate world. He thanked all stakeholders and partners for their support throughout the year in developing the district. Source : BOPA