The Lagos State acting Commissioner of Police, Mr. Imohimi Edgal, yesterday assured residents and visitors of utmost safety amid tight security across the length and breadth of the state during the Yuletide. A statement by the Public Relations Officer of the State Police Command, Chike Godwin Oti, urged residents to be vigilant and celebrate moderately during the festive period, just as it restated that additional batches of armed police officers would be deployed to volatile areas in the State to ensure adequate safety for all residents in Lagos. It, however, warned that the command would not tolerate any form of lawlessness or act that may undermine the peaceful atmosphere prevailing in the State. The statement also commended the support and cooperation the Police have received from the State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode as well as other security agencies including the Neighbourhood Safety Corps. "The CP also expressed satisfaction with the cooperation that the command has been receiving from the state government, corporate and religious institutions, especially during the organisation of major outdoor functions such as The Experience Concert and the Lagos Street Carnival," it stated. While assuring of maximum security during the forthcoming celebrations, Edgal said it was important for the people to be vigilant, celebrate moderately and pass on useful tips to security agencies. The statement further said arrangements had been made to increase Police presence across the state due to the influx of people who may want to take undue advantage of the Yuletide to perpetrate a crime, stressing that plans were in place to nip any threat or harmful incident in the bud. He also warned residents to desist from the sale, distribution or use of industrial fireworks, saying that anyone found violating the law banning fireworks would be arrested and charged to court. He also said that all emergency numbers will be fully operational and solicited the cooperation of the citizens in ensuring a safe and crime-free December in Lagos State.. He also threatened that any resident who sells, distributes or uses industrial fireworks would be arrested and charged to court, saying that the ban on such "is still very much in force."