Kampala — Uganda Electricity Generation Company Ltd (UEGCL) is to increase its power generation capacity from 380 megawatts to 1,300 megawatts. This is contained in its five-year strategic plan running from 2018 to 2023. While launching the firm's strategic plan last week, in Kampala, UEGCL chief executive officer, Eng Harrison Mutikanga, said the new plan follows a three-year strategic plan dubbed; 'new vision and strategic direction 2015 to 2017,' whose major focus was financial prudence, customer satisfaction, enhanced internal business process and learning and growth. "This five-year strategic plan aims at strategically positioning the company to continue fulfilling its mandate and mission of providing reliable, quality and affordable electricity for social and economic development of the country," Mr Mutikanga said. The focus in the next five years is based on strategic themes of operational excellence, stakeholder and reputation management, sustainable growth, engaged workforce and safety excellence. The company board chairperson Proscovia Njuki, said the launch of the plan comes at a critical time when the company is gearing itself for the completion of the flagship hydropower projects of Karuma, which is expected to generate 600 megawatts and Isimba 183 megawatts and the subsequent oversight of their operation and maintenance. Commended Finance minister Matia Kasaija commended UEGCL for exhibiting a high level of responsibility that has ensured continued supervision of the Kira/Nalubaale complex and the steady implementation of the flagship projects of Karuma and Isimba despite the challenges met. "I'm happy to note that the strategic plan takes cognisance of the need to generate low cost and affordable power which is a catalyst for and spirals economic growth and development," Mr Kasaija said. The launch of the strategic plan coincided with the celebrations to mark the end of a successful year of the company. Mr Simon Kasyate, the UEGCL corporate affairs manager, said the current cost of a unit of power at Nalubaale is currently at two US cents (Shs72). When the new generation target is realised, power costs will be reduced. The new power plants we are working on will be selling below five US cents (Shs180) per unit of power," Mr Kasyate said.