Kaduna — More troops have been deployed in the southern part of Kaduna State to beef up security following the recent killings of 10 people in the area by gunmen suspected to be herdsmen. On December 22, gunmen attacked Nindem community in Godogodo Chiefdom, killing four people while in a similar attack in Anguwan Mailafiya, Gwong Chiefdom, six people were killed on Christmas eve by suspected herders. Both communities are in Jama'a Local Government Area of the state. Spokesman of the state governor, Samuel Aruwan, in a statement thursday in Kaduna said the deployment of more troops was to stem any further attack in the area. He said the state had provided a patrol van and motorbikes, including royal motorbikes to military personnel in the area to enhance security patrols. According to him, the royal bikes are meant for difficult terrains. "Concerted efforts to maintain peace in southern Kaduna are continuing. The military authorities have deployed more troops in the area. Extra troops posted to the general area from December 24, 2017, have since arrived and are operating in the areas assigned to them. "Furthermore, in order to enhance security patrols in the area, the Kaduna State Government has provided the military with a new patrol van. "The government has also supplied royal bikes that are meant for difficult terrains in addition to conventional motorcycles "The security actions are being complemented by the officials of the Kaduna State Peace Commission who have commenced peace building engagements in the Kaduna South senatorial district," the statement said. According to Aruwan, the leadership of the peace commission was engaging with the clergy, traditional and community leaders and other stakeholders to ensure peace and stability in the area. "The government welcomes the confirmation by the military authorities that there were no security breaches in the area on Christmas day and on Boxing Day, enabling residents to observe peaceful celebrations. "The Kaduna State Government wishes to express its appreciation of the collective efforts made for peace and security by traditional and religious leaders and members of the public," the statement said. The statement called on all citizens to contribute to peace and stability by maintaining vigilance and reporting suspicious activities to the appropriate authorities.