The Lagos State Government has restated its commitment to reduce the burden of non communicable diseases (NCDs) like hypertension, diabetes and cancers of the breast, cervix and prostate through the implementation of effective strategies. Special Adviser to the Governor on Primary Health Care, Dr. Olufemi Onanuga who disclosed this recently during the commemoration the 5th round State Wellness Week Programme at Kola Primary Healthcare Centre in Ojokoro Local Council Development Area noted the burden of NCDs is high and the challenge of combating the diseases has some unprecedented dimensions. "It is expensive and strains our already overburdened health systems, diverting scarce resources from other important development priorities. The rise of chronic non-communicable diseases presents every nation's public health with an enormous challenge." he said. Onanuga stated that the Lagos State Government remains resolute in ensuring that residents are appropriately empowered to become responsible for their health and take all necessary precautions towards prevention and control of diseases in the state. He said the state government will continue to intensify community advocacy, mobilisation and sensitisation interventions for disease control and prevention. "We are determined to reduce the burden of these diseases through implementation of strategies such as awareness creation, sensitisation and mobilisation (ACSM); early detection and prompt treatment of those affected. This we believe will ensure favourable outcome for these medical condition." While adding that the state government has put in place all requisite healthcare resources to reduce these diseases burden, he said healthcare facilities in the state including Primary Health Centres, General Hospitals and the State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) are continually being renovated, staffed and equipped to address NCDs management needs of the people. Onanuga explained that the state government's sponsored wellness week programme provides an opportunity to create awareness and provide screening services for NCDs for the benefit of residents of Lagos adding that the NCDs involved in the exercise are Hypertension, Diabetes, Cancers of the Breast and Cervix in women and Cancer of the Prostate in men. "This programme is targeted at increasing awareness, reducing missed opportunities and maximising the benefits of integration of health services towards combating non communicable diseases," he said. Earlier in his address, the Chairman, Ojoko Local Council Development Area, Mr. Hameed Tijani appealed to residents to ensure they go for routine medical check with a view to knowing their health status and take care of whatever arises without delay especially for non-communicable diseases like hypertension, diabetes, breast, cervical and prostate cancers.