CHINA has handed over Zimbabwe-China Friendship High School worth $2 million that the Asian economic giant built in Hatcliffe, Harare. The school has capacity to enrol 960 students and employ 50 teachers. Speaking during the handover ceremony, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Professor Paul Mavima thanked the Chinese government for the kind gesture. "I feel a sense of gratitude to be here on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Zimbabwe, receiving this state-of-the-art school, the Hatcliffe China-Zimbabwe Friendship Government High School," he said. "This noble project is a gift to us from the People's Republic of China. It is testimony to the immense friendship that exists between our two governments and indeed the peoples of the two great nations." Minister Mavima said he was happy with the speed at which the school was constructed. The ground-breaking ceremony for the construction of the school was done in May last year. "Hatcliffe barely had any public high school. So, this school is going to provide much needed relief for learners and parents in this area. "Without adequate infrastructure, the hope for quality, inclusive and accessible education fades," said Minister Mavima "Additionally, infrastructure in the form of science laboratories, technical and vocational workshops and Early Childhood Development (ECD) facilities are needed at existing schools." Chinese Deputy Ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Zhao Baogang pledged more support to Zimbabwe. "We know that Zimbabwean Government attaches great importance to education and in Zimbabwe, largely 95 percent are literate and it is number one in Africa," he said. "We will continue to do more to support the department of education in Zimbabwe." Mr Boagang said he was happy with his country's contribution towards development in Zimbabwe. China is involved in a number of projects in the country, which include construction of the new Parliament Building in Mt Hampden, expansion of Kariba South Power Station and refurbishment and expansion of the Robert Gabriel Mugabe International Airport. The school in Hatcliffe consists of administrative buildings; teaching and learning areas; six science laboratories; auxiliary rooms; specialist room; multi-function hall and staff offices. It has sporting facilities inclusive of a 400-metre perimeter athletic track, a football pitch and a multi-purpose court covering basketball, tennis, volleyball and other disciplines that require a hard surface.