Nairobi — China has pledged to continue working with Kenya in order to achieve more tangible outcomes for both countries. Chinese Ambassador to Kenya Liu Xianfa stated that the relationship between the two countries was at the best period in history with unprecedented opportunities for further growth. Liu asked Kenya to set its eyes on the Chinese market to expend the export of Kenyan products especially with international and horticultural expos slated in Beijing from next year. "As Kenya's good friend, good brother and good partner, China firmly believes that Kenya will make greater progress in its development and modernization. In this October, the 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China was held in Beijing," he said at a dinner for think tanks at the Chinese Embassy in Nairobi. He described 2017 as a historic year for both Kenya and China since President Uhuru Kenyatta was sworn in for his second term, with prospects for more partnership geared towards enhancing development on a win-win basis. "Currently, China-Kenya relations are at the best period in history with unprecedented historic opportunities of further growth. In May of this year, President Kenyatta visited China for the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. During the visit, President Xi Jinping met with President Kenyatta. The two heads of state reached broad consensus on strengthening the bilateral cooperation in various fields," he said. "These cooperation projects have not only accelerated Kenya's economic and social development, but also promoted technological transfer and local employment. Driven by the implementation of the BRI, China continues to be Kenya's largest trading partner, construction project contractor and source of investment," he said. China has helped Kenya implemented several mega projects like the eye-catching Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) which has drawn the world's attention. "As we know, the Communist party of China (CPC) is the founding and ruling party of the People's Republic of China (PRC). With more than 89 million party members, the CPC is the largest political party in the world," he stated. The Chinese-funded and built railway is the country's biggest infrastructure project since independence, and while it has courted controversy, it is a key selling point for the ruling Jubilee party ahead of August elections.