Insisting on customer satisfaction as a priority for successful business, iSON Technologies has stressed the need for organisations to come up with solutions that will add value to customer experience. In his presentation at the recently concluded 'Africacom', titled; "Transforming Customer Experience - Shifting Gears at Big Data Stream", the Chief Growth Officer at iSON Technologies, Akshay Grover, stressed on the fact that new age digital services/ operations have raised the competitive bar in every sector. According to him, in addition, to capture the opportunity in its entirety, company executives should with immediate effect, embrace a new operating model that exponentially improves the digital customer experience. He explained that most conversations today revolve around enhancing customer experience through digitisation. Research has revealed that over 72 per cent of global businesses are highly eager to prioritise their customer experience journey through tangible improvements. Yet and not surprisingly, according to the annual CX report by Forrester in 2016, globally, companies lose over $340 billion due to poor customer service/customer experience management every year, and this is a startling number, Grover said. According to him, through iSON's digital consumer expertise and service-operations work with leading practitioners, the company has distilled elements that it believes are critical in shifting away from the present uncoordinated efforts within organisational silos to launching an integrated operating model that is organised around the entire customer experience lifecycle, right from the point of purchase. He went on to explain how iSON Technologies has successfully transformed customer experience through creating a holistic self-care application, developed for a major telecommunications giant in Africa. Reduction of inbound customer-care calls by 15 per cent, elimination of long 'call-waiting lines' and additional two million subscribers shifting to use the app within three months of launch, clearly reflect sustained positive results. Grover further stated that iSON Technologies expedites an experience based approach to transforming their customer profile. Rather than digitizing lot of elements, they focus on selective transformation, singling out a handful of customer journeys that really matter within key segments; mapping how those journeys flow across functions, channels and device along with identifying where the key pain points lie. Re-imagination and innovation lead to processes intersecting cleanly with social, mobile, cloud technology and artificial intelligence to deliver a superior customer experience. He said it was not surprising that a lot of digital journey transformations struggle to succeed, when we consider that the execution of the same is a complex, multidimensional task.