The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says no amount of finger-pointing by the APC can justify the fraudulent attempt by the Federal Government to withdraw $1bn from the Excess Crude Account (ECA) to finance partisan activities, adding that APC's arguments are diversionary and lame. The PDP also maintained that "the attempt to claim that 11 PDP governors were part of the approval in a meeting superintended and eminently directed by Vice President Professor Yemi Osinbajo was merely begging the question" and further underpins the manipulative proclivities of the APC government. PDP National Publicity Secretary Kola Ologbondiyan in a swift reaction to APC's defence on Monday noted that the ruling party always paints holier than thou picture of itself whereas the whole world knows it reeks of corruption. "The truth remains that the APC government has been caught in the act and no amount of diversionary finger-pointing will detract from the fact that it tried to use the fight against insurgents as a ruse to secure the money, which they have arranged to spend on extraneous subheads including partisan activities. "It is a known fact that under this APC government, monies meant for insurgency related issues in the northeast had been diverted and that the only reasons the culprits have not been prosecuted is that they enjoy the cover of APC government. "Nigerians have not forgotten how leading members of the APC diverted funds and sold items meant for insurgency related issues including relief items for internally Displaced Persons (IDP) in the north east. "How can the APC point accusing fingers when Nigerians are all aware of the heinous diversion of N5billion meant for the IDPs under the Presidential Initiative on the Northeast, for which the Senate mounted a stiff investigation, leading to the indictment of officials of the APC government? "What has the APC to say to the open indictment of their former SGF over the atrocious diversion of N500 million meant for IDP activities in the northeast? "Nigerians have equally not forgotten the motion by Senator Baba Kaka Garba from Borno Central, who last year unveiled how some individuals known to have connections with the APC fraudulently cornered N1.2 billion from the Federal Government under the guise of supplying items to IDPs, only for the money to be diverted for other purposes, which we know are related to APC interests", the PDP said. The PDP said Nigerians on daily basis are now counting the exit day for the APC-led federal government and no amount of propaganda will save the ruling party from the doomsday.