MUNICIPALITIES in the country owe the Tanzania Biotech Product Limited, producer of the biolarvacides -‑ the latest and effective chemical that kills mosquito larvae ‑- more than 2bn/-, a situation that compromises the company's operations. The company's management is lamenting, however, that there has been poor response to the directive issued by President John Magufuli in June, to all municipalities to purchase the chemical from the company. Speaking at a media briefing session in Kibaha yesterday, the acting General Manager, Eng Aggregates Ndunguru, explained that the company had supplied over 236,000 litres of biolarvacides to municipalities so far. Kilombero, Mpimbwe, Malinyi and Kilindi had yet to purchase the chemical despite the directive, he told reporters, explaining that during his visit, the President directed the Treasury to disburse 1.320bn/- to the company for the supply of biolarvacides. He said he placed an order for 100,000 litres which were distributed to 14 malaria-prone regions, but "we have received only 1bn/- and the balance is still pending," Mr Ndunguru said. The company executive said between August and early November, they supplied over 136,420 litres worth over 1.8bn/- to 78 municipalities in the remaining 12 regions, for which not a single cent has been paid, consequently putting our production process at a crossroads. He said the money was supposed to be paid by the regional administration and local government but the responsibility was being thrust on municipal councils, in the wake of which confusion had arisen. He pointed out, however, that whereas the response on the local front was poor, the company had sold more than 90,000 litres to Niger, and they would soon sign deals with Angola and Mozambique. The company, a subsidiary of the National Development Corporation, has a capacity of producing 500,000 litres a month. On her part, the company Head of Marketing, Sales and Training, Ms Upendo Ndunguru, said if biolarvacides were properly applied, billions of shillings spent on buying malaria treatment medicines would be saved.