Zaria — The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. General Yusuf Tukur Buratai, has on Tuesday disclosed that 6,000 recruits into the Nigerian Army have been exposed to terrain similar to one obtain in the North-East in order to ensure their effectiveness when drafted to the area. Buratai said this at the Depot Nigerian Army during the graduation of the 76th Regular Recruits Intake (RRI), saying that patriotism, discipline and selfless service are critical components for the success of the counter insurgency/terrorism operations. Represented by the Chief of Army Administration, Army Headquarters, Abuja, Major General Ibrahim Mohammed Alkali, Buratai said the recruits were trained at the Falgore forest, a terrain similar to Sambisa and the North-East in general. Buratai said: "The joint military training exercise conducted at Falgore forest with student officers and soldiers of Nigerian Army school of Infantry (NASI) and Warrant Officers Academy (WOA) has further exposed the 76th RRI in new things. The joint training had exposed them to counter terrorist and counter insurgency operations and gave them the opportunity to operate in terrain similar to the epic-centre of our CTCOIN operation in the North East." He observed that the ceremony was coming at a time when Nigeria was confronted with a myriad of asymmetric security challenges. Buratai said the rigorous training received from the Depot Nigerian Army was meant to mould the recruits to become vibrant soldiers that would actively defend the integrity of their fatherland. He added; "in this regard, it is gratifying to observe that Depot NA has continued to evolve its training activities in line with my vision of having a professionally responsive Nigerian Army in the discharge of its constitutional roles. It has always been my humble submission that realistic training is the best means of preparing NA personnel towards achieving its role as enshrined in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. "I hereby state unequivocally that Depot NA has improved on every aspect of realistic result-oriented training. The improved standard across the entire corps and formations in the Nigerian Army is yielding positive results as evidence in the robust fighting spirit exhibited by our troops in the North-East."