Kampala — Bank of Uganda (BoU) is under fire as its top managers; Governor Tumusiime Mutebile, the Deputy Governor Louis Kasekende, and the Director Supervision Justine Bagyenda, fight each other amidst accusations of incompetence and abuse of office. Kasekende and Bagyenda are said to be in one camp and Mutebile in another. That BoU is under investigation by a committee of parliament and is battling several court cases, merely adds to the tension. "This is not the Bank's finest hour," says Joseph Bossa, a former head of the Legal Department at BoU before he retired in 2004, "It is pitiable." Another official who has worked with the central bank told The Independent that the institution has become a shadow of its former self. "Previously," the official said on condition of anonymity, "people who worked with the central bank used to walk with their shoulders high. Talking to colleagues now, you get a sense that that sense of pride is no longer there." Another economist who is well versed with the inner workings of BoU says that the slips at BoU have everything to do with the inability of the governor to fulfill his administrative, managerial and supervisory roles. "There is no doubt that the governor is no longer the kind of decision maker he used to be, his ability to make decisions is questionable. It is not even clear he is aware of what is going on," says the economist on condition of anonymity, "And because the centre can no longer hold, these slips are opening up the central bank to questions of integrity, governance and administration, which is unprecedented." Comments by Bossa and others, based on anecdotes and speculation of outside observers, are in line with the latest IMF findings regarding BoU. The IMF in July published a report noting that although BoU carries out quarterly top-down stress credit and liquidity tests of financial institutions under its supervision, the Crane Bank episode illustrates that the results of the BoU tests might not be valid. "The quality of banks' reporting is a risk to the validity of the stress test results," the IMF report notes. Part of the problem is that the IMF report marks the peak of what is being described as the worst year; if not for the central bank, then certainly for its top managers - including the Governor Mutebile, the Deputy Governor Kasekende, and the Director Supervision, Bagyenda. Although the IMF notes that it had agreed with BoU authorities that "more intrusive supervision" is required going forward, including foreign exchange and combined stress test scenarios, there are doubts surrounding the way BoU is being run. The criticism stems mainly from its handling of the Crane Bank affair. "How do you explain that a bank, which is ranked as best performing, closes a few years down the road like it has been struck by lightning?" Bossa said while commenting specifically on the closure of Crane Bank, "Someone must have slept on the job." As a result of that, a concerned citizen through lawyer, Hussein Kashillingi, sued the central bank for among others negligence, another petitioned the Inspector General of Government (IGG) to investigate Bagyenda, and owners of another bank which was also sold off by BoU; the National Bank of Commerce, are suing it. Most of these cases are riding on information of the internal workings and decision-making at BoU which ordinarily would be exclusive but was exposed in suits against Sudhir Ruparelia, the former owner of Crane Bank. Concerns over conflict of interest emerged given that the central bank was relying on the same lawyers at the law firm--MMAKs--led by Timothy Masembe, as Sudhir, whom they were supervising. Matters were even more complicated when it emerged that Masembe was a business partner with the Attorney General William Byaruhanga, who before falling out with the tycoon over property, had also been one of his lawyers. This is why when Masembe picked the side of the Central Bank in this fight, Sudhir's camp were quick to raise the connection with Byaruhanga as part of the problem. Sudhir raised Masembe's conflict of interest as one of the issues in his defense against the central bank. Meanwhile, the parliamentary Committee on Statutory Authorities and State Enterprises (COSASE) is investigating the Bank's operations. The committee launched an investigation into BoU's expenditure on private law firms despite having a fully-fledged legal department. COSASE members raised concerns that MMAKs, the firm representing BoU in Crane Bank case was paid more than Shs1.4 billion and was demanding more Shs15.8 billion in four consecutive financial years. Apart from this, the committee chairman Abdul Katuntu has called for investigations into the liquidation of banks by BoU--Greenland Bank, NBC, and Crane Bank. Opposition stalwart, legislator Nathan Nandala Mafabi had earlier demanded a full parliamentary probe into BoU's activities. He said most of the mess in Crane Bank gained immunity due to collusion, corruption, insider trading and fraud that went undetected or was covered up. Sudhir, he said, cultivates social capital with those meant to supervise him, thus the collusion. It emerged that Bagyenda's sister was the head of Crane Bank Rwanda. "Parliament needs to carry out a comprehensive investigation into the role of Bank of Uganda in the mismanagement of Crane Bank, inquire into and assess the performance and liquidity of Bank of Uganda," Mafabi noted. It is only the Deputy Speaker Jacob Oulanyah who, in his ruling days later on Aug.01, saved BoU when he blocked the investigation on grounds that any investigation would offend the sub-judice rule. "I received two letters from MMAKS Advocates (BoU's lawyers) and the Governor challenging the proposed motion on grounds that any inquiry would bias ongoing court cases," said Oulanyah. Apparently, Mutebile's letter to the Deputy Speaker's office referred to three cases that are before High Court, all related to the collapse of Crane Bank. Apart from the COSASE investigations, are the disturbing details that BoU Deputy Governor Kasekende, offered insider information to potential investors about the sale of Crane Bank while the central bank and Crane Bank's majority shareholder, business mogul Sudhir Ruparelia, were still in negotiations. The investor in question, Patrick Ho, allegedly paid Foreign Affairs Minister Sam Kutesa $500,000 as part of a plot to advance his Chinese firm's business interests in Africa, specifically Uganda's energy and financial sectors. Documents from the American agency, Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), indicate that Kutesa's wife, Edith Kutesa, was helping Ho in acquiring a Ugandan commercial bank. The bank has since been identified as Crane Bank, which BoU later sold to DFCU Bank. The FBI documents show that Kasekende met with the Chinese investors and shared information with them about Crane Bank before BoU took it over. While the central bank has defended Kasekende's actions as not illegal, the criticism has not abated. Critics claim that Kasekende's actions showed that BoU officials were hell-bent on selling to foreign investors Crane Bank even as they negotiated with the proprietor. Mishandling economy Other commentators, among them legislator and economist, Stephen Mukitale, who previously chaired the Parliamentary Committee on National Economy and now sits on the National Budget Committee, says BoU's mishandling of the Crane Bank affair is a symptom of its mishandling of the larger economy. "Crane Bank issues were badly handled," says Mukitale, "That Bank was a symptom of a bad economy. It was not the problem. Part of the problem is that BoU has been implementing a (economy) contracting policy, which is not working." "The government has no policy on local banks," Mukitale added, "They are closing local banks, which have been investing in Uganda. They closed Crane Bank, now local traders and suppliers are suffering. They are stuck." Mukitale adds that Sudhir was giving quick fixes to traders who the government had failed by not addressing the financing gaps. "By selling treasury bills and bonds at an interest of 15 percent," Mukitale said, "the government has been crowding out the private sector. Other banks are making money by lending to government. They are not lending to the private sector. Sudhir was the main lender to these local traders. His many branches were improving financial inclusion. DFCU is now closing those branches." He says these bad policies that have fovoured foreign banks at the expense of local banks are part of the problem. "Where has Stanbic or Barclays invested in Uganda?" Mukitale wondered, "Which building have they built? Which country has survived with only foreign banks?" "I blame government but I also blame BoU for failing to advise government," he added. Bossa also said, broadly, the current crisis at BoU is not with just the central bank's problem. "There has been a dumbing down of institutions in Uganda," Bossa added, "The judiciary is not what it used to be. The legislature the same, even private institutions." This criticism is indicting for Mutebile, who at his vetting by Parliament's Appointments Committee in 2012, pledged economic growth of 10 percent (now 5%), interest rates below 20 percent (still above 20%), more disciplined government spending, and reforms at the central bank. Economic growth is now at 4 percent, interest rates remain above 24 percent and the central bank is blamed for excessive spending. Critics say while dealing with Crane Bank, BoU officials appeared to lose sight of the big picture and got carried away by personal beef with Sudhir. For instance, The Independent understands that at the height of the fight, BoU had been working around the clock to have Sudhir prosecuted on criminal charges. BoU working with the Attorney General, William Byaruhanga, had instructed the Director of Public Prosecutions and Police's Criminal Investigations Directorate to pursue criminal charges against Sudhir. However, when President Museveni got wind of it, he called BoU, DPP and CID officials and directed that no criminal charges are preferred against Sudhir. This was not the first time the president was urging BoU officials not to target Sudhir but to look at the big picture. On July 6, President Museveni had chaired a meeting at State House intended to resolve the crisis between Sudhir and BoU officials. Going into the meeting, Sudhir hoped the president would restrain BoU officials from suing him. On the other hand, BoU officials hoped the president would get Sudhir to submit to their demands or give them a nod to proceed with the suit. The central bank had launched a suit against Sudhir who it also accused of breaching a March 20 agreement. The deal offered the tycoon immunity from prosecution as long as he paid BoU some $ 60 million to cover for the losses allegedly registered under Crane Bank. In countering, Sudhir said he had met his end of the bargain as per that agreement by paying BoU some $8 million and giving them some 32 properties. But, he said, rather than also meet their end, BoU was now threatening to sue him. "But isn't your role to ensure a healthy financial sector and that businesses grow?" Museveni asked the BoU camp at some point, "So if that is your role, why don't you find a way to resolve this?" In response, BoU officials reiterated the fraud allegations against Sudhir like how he had allegedly extracted $80 million from the bank. With all this, the president got frustrated and said that in Runyankore they say that when two parties fail to agree, they are left to fight. He warned that if the matter wasn't handled well, there would be consequences. He was possibly right. But now he has a mess to clean up. Mutebile, Kasekende rivalry At just 68, Governor Mutebile, is unfortunately not in the best health. He struggles to walk and his still brain-sharp no longer keeps pace with BoU operations, insiders say. Yet the institution he heads now needs incisive leadership the most. When the New Year begins, it is not clear how Mutebile who will be beginning his 18th year as the central bank governor, will handle the controversies surrounding BoU. Already the bank's core leadership is increasingly being questioned. So far he has survived by passing the buck. In an interview with Monitor in July, when asked who was criminally culpable for what went wrong with Crane Bank, Mutebile replied: "Ask the Executive Director for Supervision". On top of this, Mutebile and his more hands-on deputy governor Kasekende, are said not to be on the best of terms. Kasekende was reportedly lured from the African Development Bank in 2010 with a promise that he would replace Mutebile when the latter's contract expired in 2015. It didn't happen and informed sources say Kasekende was "crashed". Meanwhile, Mutebile cannot be expected to be happy that Kasekende is effectively waiting for his job. Insiders say this has affected top-level decision making at BoU with a toll on the bank and its leaders' reliability. But while speaking during the 7th annual international leadership organized by Makerere University Business School on Nov.29, Kasekende said that BoU has performed well at regulating commercial banks by preventing major depositors' financial loss and keeping the country from experiencing a systematic financial crisis. It is not the first time BoU is courting controversy. In 2011, Mutebile faced calls for resignation after testifying before Parliament's Adhoc Committee investigating the management of Uganda's oil sector that President Yoweri Museveni directed him to draw an unbudgeted US$750 million from the Treasury to buy Russian fighter jets in the midst of an inflationary economy. Mutebile shocked many when he said that he had no record of the transaction. Mutebile's tenure at the bank has almost single-handedly built the fortunes of city businessman Hassan Basajjabalaba. Between 2005 and 2011 more than Shs300 billion was allocated to the tycoon from the Treasury to pay debts, taxes and subsidise his Kampala International University. Accountant General Gustavo Bwoch also faulted BOU for releasing US$1.7 million to a shoddy company for bicycles never delivered, without requisite approval. These scandals have seen Mutebile, an economist once praised for steering Uganda's economic stability from the doldrums of the 1980s, turn into a subject of ridicule, branded as a regime lackey, and called to resign. This is a far cry from 2004 when Sebastian Mallaby, in his book 'The World's Banker: A story of Failed States, Financial Crises, and the Wealth and Poverty of Nations', described Mutebile as a "a hulking, hard-drinking hammer of a person, the chief architect of Uganda's success story and the greatest contributor to Africa's struggle against poverty in his generation." Profiling Mutebile alongside one of the World Bank's most celebrated Presidents, James Wolfensohn, Mallaby devoted a whole chapter of the book to the governor, and treated him as a man of equal caliber to the book's main subject, then World Bank President Wolfensohn. Painting them as heroes, Mallaby argued that these were the no-nonsense men who drove economic recovery in poor countries by taking difficult and unpopular decisions, seeing the bigger picture others couldn't, unwaveringly steering politicians and the public towards necessary (often painful) economic reforms. Mallaby said because of Mutebile, by the end of 1986, President Museveni had yielded to the IMF and World Bank economic reform policies of structural adjustment, stabilization, liberalization and privatization - leading to one of the most dramatic transformations not only of an ailing economy, but also of the World Bank's engagement with developing countries. Interest rates rose to about 50 percent, reducing inflation from over 240 to 3 percent, and scaling down public spending. For steering Uganda's transition to Africa's success story, Mutebile (and Uganda) became a World Bank and IMF darling, a test-case of how well their market-led models could change the fortunes of faithful disciples. Indeed, during his long illustrious career, Mutebile has fought Museveni, bankers and donors to introduce reforms and implement them in a bid to make Uganda's economy a success. With slightly over two years left for his contract to expire, Mutebile needs to return the central bank to its former glory. It is a significant undertaking as it has major implications not just for BoU or Mutebile's legacy, but for the economy in 2018.