Following the launch of her first album and the release of her colourful video just a few months ago that left memorable impression in the minds of gospel music lovers and got the industry watching, teen star 'Iseoluwa' is set to take the scene a notch higher this Yuletide with her maiden concert dubbed, 'Iseoluwa Live in Concert'. The 12-year-old singer alongside other top gospel artistes will thrill fans and lovers of gospel tunes in what is described as first of its kind experience, following her age and talent, which has wowed her audience since her emergence on the music scene. Top gospel acts to support the youngster are Mike Abdul, Tim Godfrey, Wole Oni, Onos, and Eben. Others are Tosin Bee, Odunayo Aboderin, and the sensational music instructor of the MTN Project Fame, Uncle Ben. Since her emergence, the child star who was discovered at the age of five, by her mum, has made special appearances in music events like the 'Meets Media' monthly event for creatives and personalities in the entertainment and media circuit and as well headlined music activities at church festivals. Slated to hold on Sunday 17th of December at the RCCG Jesus Embassy Parish, Harris Drive, VGC Lekki Lagos, 'Iseoluwa Live in Concert' is peculiar in way that the purple coloured themed event is to promote the message of peace, according to the artiste. "If we are to create peace in our world we must begin with children. "Racial understanding is not something that we must create. Peace is our gift to each other. Peace cannot be kept by force. When the power of love overcomes the love of power the world will know peace." Three African Beauty Entrepreneurs Win 'Dark and Lovely-SLA Accelerator' Skin Gourmet from Ghana, Beauty Revolution from Nigeria and FreshMe from South Africa have emerged as the winners of the 2017 Dark and Lovely-SLA Beauty Accelerator Demo Day, which held at OPEN Sandton in Johannesburg, recently. The Demo Day was the closing ceremony to the 10-week entrepreneurship development programme which is run to support early stage entrepreneurs who are building businesses in the beauty industry. Over the past 10 weeks, five beauty businesses worked with mentors and advisors including; Nneka Keshi, Digital Director at L'Oreal for Sub-Saharan Africa; Tresor Mpasa - International Brand and Afua Osei, Co-Founder of She Leads Africa, SLA. At the event, the five entrepreneurs pitched their businesses to a host of industry stakeholders, media and investors for a chance to win cash prizes. The first place winner was Violet Amoabeng of Skin Gourmet; Violet is the Founder of Skin Gourmet, a premium skincare line made from raw pure and natural ingredients sources from the wild in Ghana. The second place winner was Louisa Kinoshi of Beauty Revolution Studio; Louisa is the Co-Founder of Beauty Revolution Studio, an e-commerce and digital beauty network for African makeup artists, beauty bloggers, makeup enthusiast and African women in general. In third place were Sherri Rhode, Deveash Jivan and Lendl Rhode of FreshMe: Sherri, Deveash and Lendl are Co-Founders of FreshMe which takes beauty brands to salons and brings people to brands in an informal salon market. The other two businesses that pitched were; Mathebe Molise of Beauty on TApp (South Africa) and Aniouvi Gnassounou of Black Beauty Fair (Cote d'Ivoire). According to Nneka Keshi, Digital Director at L'Oreal for sub-Saharan Africa, "This programme is very important to Dark and Lovely because our brand mission is built around empowering women. We wanted to concretely help and support young women entrepreneurs across Africa. We wanted to make sure that Dark and Lovely and She Leads Africa went the distance and delivered hands on work with beauty businesses from across Africa. We are incredibly impressed with the quality and scalability of the businesses we've worked with." She Leads Africa is a community that helps young African women achieve their professional dreams and remains committed to encouraging young African women to rise to the top of their various career paths and take charge to attain their professional ambitions. By providing and creating more opportunities for their community, She Leads Africa will continue to connect women to business leaders and experts in the various industries available.