Mohamed Salah, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Sadio Mane have been nominated for CAF's African Player of the Year while Asisat Oshoala, Chrestina Kgatlana and Gabrielle Aboudi Onguene are vying for the Women's Player of the Year. The Confederation of African Football (CAF) yesterday released the final nominee list for the upcoming Aiteo CAF awards. On the African Player of the Year award list is Egypt and Liverpool player Mohammed Salah, who had won the 2017 BBC African Footballer of the year. Also on the list are Gabon's Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who also plays for Borussia Dortmund; and Salah's Liverpool colleague Sadio Mane from Senegal. Aubameyang won the CAF award in 2015 and in 2016, Algeria's Riyad Mahrez, playing for Leicester City, won the award despite missing from the original list of nominees. Nigeria's and Dalian Quanjian's Asisat Oshoala, the winner of the 2016 CAF Women Player of the Year, is up for the award again in 2017 alongside South Africa's Chrestina Kgatlana and Cameroon's Gabrielle Aboudi Onguene. Cameroon, Egypt and Nigeria will be contesting for the National Team of the Year. Uganda won the national team of the year award in 2016. Nigeria's U20, Ghana's U20 and South African women's team are the nominees for this year's Women's National Team of the Year. Nigeria's Super Falcons were the 2016 winners. Head coaches and Technical Directors of the National football associations affiliated to the African governing body will vote for the winners. Read: Issa Hayatou leaves CAF: After 29 years, African football is getting a makeover CAF President Ahmad, CAF First Vice President Kwesi Nyantakyi, CAF Executive Committee member, Amaju Pinnick, with Ghana's Minister of Youth and Sports, Isaac Asiamah, the Guest-of-Honour attended the nominee announcement ceremony. The awards will be held in Accra Ghana on January 4. Here is the full list of the nominees African Player of the Year: Mohamed Salah (Egypt and Liverpool) Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang (Gabon and B. Dortmund) Sadio Mane (Senegal and Liverpool) Women's Player of the Year Asisat Oshoala (Nigeria & Dalian Quanjian) Chrestina Kgatlana (South Africa & UWC Ladies) Gabrielle Aboudi Onguene(Cameroon & CSKA Moscow) Youth Player of the Year Krepin Diatta (Senegal & Sarpsborg) Patson Daka (Zambia & Liefering) Salam Giddou (Mali & Guidars) Coach of the Year Gernot Rohr (Nigeria) Hector Cuper (Egypt) L'Hussein Amoutta (Wydad Athletic Club) Club of the Year Al Ahly TP Mazembe Wydad Athletic Club National Team of the Year Cameroon Egypt Nigeria Women's National Team of the Year Ghana U-20 Nigeria U-20 South Africa