Abuja — The newest luxury hotel in Abuja, Fraser Suites has won two prestigious awards by the internationally renowned 2017 World Luxury Hotel Awards. The award was presented in St Moritz, Switzerland on December 1. The first award, 2017 Luxury Business Hotel Award for Nigeria, was in recognition of sustained commitment to excellence in hoteliering and outstanding achievement in the international luxury hospitality industry. The second award is Global Winner for Luxury Business Serviced Apartments. The Executive Director Royal Pacific Group, promoters of Fraser Suites Abuja, Mr. MG Nasreddin and accompanied by Gilbert Ng. Technical Services, received the award plaques. Incidentally, Abuja marks the first foray of Fraser Suites into Africa, which makes Nigeria's made to measure capital, the latest addition in the luxury hotel group's global collection. Fraser Suites Abuja was soft-launched on June 15, 2017 and is set for grand commissioning in the first quarter of 2018. The hotel hosted some of the Ministerial Delegation for the D-8 Summit and from November 27- December 2, it successfully hosted the well-attended International Week of Italian Cuisine organised by the Italian Embassy in Abuja. Fraser Suites is strategically located in the Central Business District, with proximity to the International Conference Centre, foreign embassies and the Three Arms Zone. Its 126 Gold Standard residences combine comfort, style and technology with outstanding facilities and exclusive in-house services with wide apartments from studios to 4-bedroom penthouses. The rooms range in style from 28 square metres to 337 square metres and are luxuriously styled to complement the magnificent vistas. Each unit is exquisitely appointed with contemporary interiors and luxurious finishes created by skilled craftsmen, while offering spectacular views across the lush city landscape. The two, four-bedroom apartments are the largest in the city, and offer unobstructed views of the FCT. Long stay residents can take advantage of 50 one or two bedroom serviced apartments featuring fully equipped kitchenette, dining area and living room. For guests, Fraser Suites Abuja unlocks the most vibrant, undiscovered serenity in the city which guarantee unmatchable offerings of a new perspective of hospitality in Africa, delivered by attentive and caring team members.