Leader of the DA, Mmusi Maimane, has called the latest reshuffle by President Jacob Zuma an attempt to reinforce a nuclear deal with Russia. In a statement, Maimane said the appointment of former State Security Minister David Mahlobo as Minister of Energy, was a clear attempt to strike a billion-rand energy deal with the country. "This smacks of an attempt to reignite the ANC's efforts to chain our country to a multi-billion rand nuclear deal with the Russians." Maimane said Zuma was relentless in his pursuit to loot state funds. "The DA is not surprised by President Jacob Zuma's Cabinet reshuffle, the latest move in Zuma's war against anyone who opposes his project of 'State Capture'," he said. He said that former Minister of Higher Education and Training Blade Nzimande, who was sacked, was an obvious target because he "follows Pravin Gordhan, Derek Hanekom, Mcebisi Jonas and others who have failed to toe the Zuma line and have found themselves out of office". Nzimande, also the general secretary of the South African Communist Party (SACP), was replaced by former Minister of Home Affairs Hlengiwe Mkhize. 'Zuma appears to be firing his critics' Relations between Zuma and Nzimande have been described to be at an all-time low, as the SACP - that had propelled him to power - had turned out to be one of his biggest critics. The party, which is in an alliance with the ANC, has called for Zuma to step down and has banned him from addressing its events. Maimane said the SACP has been dealt an insulting blow, and they must now decide how long they will put up with this abuse, or if they will now do what they know is right, and begin to work outside the ANC. He said the reshuffle was not a move to enforce service delivery, but that it was politically driven. "This reshuffle has nothing to do with effecting good governance, and ensuring the best people serve our country. On the contrary, Jacob Zuma appears to be firing his critics, and offering promotions in exchange for support ahead of the ANC's elective conference in December this year." He called on South Africans to "use their power to vote out this self-serving ANC government at the ballot box, and choose a new beginning for our country". "The future of South Africa lies in a post-ANC South Africa, free from corruption and 'State Capture', and focused on our nation's new struggle - the struggle for access to jobs. Source: News24