THE government says it is determined to open up tourism in the Southern Zone circuit , so as to expand the scope of tourist attractions in the country and increase the number of tourists and revenue to the government. The ambition was expressed by Natural Resources and Tourism Deputy Minister Japhet Hasunga, in Kapozwa Village in Kalambo District, during his one day working tour of Rukwa Region. Kapozwa Village borders the impressive Kalambo Falls on the Kalambo River which is a 772 ft (235m) single drop waterfall on the border of Zambia and Tanzania at the southeast end of Lake Tanganyika. This spectacular jet of water falls in a single uninterrupted stream 221 meters down into the gorge below and then on into Lake Tanganyika. They are the second highest falls in Africa and the twelfth highest in the world. The falls are some of the tallest uninterrupted falls in Africa; they are the second highest falls in Africa after South Africa's Tugela Falls and the twelfth in the World. Downstream of the falls, is the Kalambo Gorge which has a width of about 1 km and a depth of up to 300m, running for about 5 km before opening out into the Lake Tanganyika rift valley. The deputy minister further said that presently many tourist attractions in the country were located in the Northern Zone circuit which had so far been overwhelmed by a large number of tourists, compared to the Southern Zone which has numerous attractions as well. He further said that the government, in collaboration with development partners, including the World Bank, and through the Resilient Natural Resource Management for Growth (REGROW) project, had a plan for improving the Southern Zone 's tourist attractions ' infrastructures and promote them globally. The upshot, he pointed out, was to enhance the tourism sector, which accounted for 25 per cent of foreign earnings and 17.5 per cent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Meanwhile, the deputy minister visited the Kalambo River Forest Reserve and inspected the ongoing construction of special steps, which upon completion would enable tourists easily go 225 meters down to the gorge. This, he said, was intended to add the value of Kalambo Falls. "We (the government) are determined to expand the scope of our tourist attractions so as to open up the Southern Zone Circuit which has numerous tourist attractions, including Kalambo Falls, which, unfortunately, have not been fully exploited," the deputy minister said, adding:. "Now is the right time for local and foreign investors to build state-of-the-art tourist hotels in the vicinity, and explore the prospects of introducing "cable cars" tourism, to enable tourists view the falls easily. Mr Hasunga urged residents of Kapozwa Village to collaborate with the government in conserving the natural vegetation of the Kalalmbo River Forest Reserve and maintain their culture by registering traditional dance groups and composing traditional songs for entertaining tourists. The initiatives would enable them earn considerable income that would enhance their livelihoods considerably, he noted. Kalambo Falls is also considered one of the most important archaeological sites in Africa, with occupation spanning over 250,000 years. Other tourist attractions located in the Southern Zone including Ruaha National Park, which is rich of plants and animals such as Greater Kudu (Tragelaphus strepsiceros) which is not found in any other national parks in the country.