Award winning gospel musician Reverend Togarepi Chivaviro recently recorded a live DVD album containing hymns in United Kingdom as part of his two- week tour. Rev Chivaviro said the DVD recording was facilitated by his Diaspora fans who desired to hear popular hymns from local churches. The video album consists of eight tracks namely "Nyanga Huru", "Tinouya Madzimambo", "Ndicheredzei", "What a friend we have in Jesus", "Kana Jesu Achidzoka", "Ngatimukudze Mwari", "Tirimo Munzira" and "Hakusi Kurema". In an interview, Rev Chivaviro said he was overwhelmed by the support he received. "I am really humbled and thank God for giving me fans. The turn-out was great and the audience loved the songs so much because they reminded them of Zimbabwe. All the songs are part of our previous hymns albums which we didn't shoot a DVD for," he said. The "Ebenezer" hit-maker said the tour consisted of several shows and services where he will also lead as a guest preacher before returning home early next month. "As part of the tour I was a guest artist at the AFM UK national conference held over the weekend in Doncaster. I also sang and preached in Scotland on Sunday at IGM Church. I will conclude the tour with a special performance and interaction with our Middle East fans that live in Dubai on Wednesday," he said. Although many of Chivaviro's past efforts went largely unnoticed, it took the hit "Ebenezer" a collaborative project with Charles Charamba, Pastor Haisa, Noel Zembe, Mechanic Manyeruke and Kudzai Nyakudya to open the floodgates of success. Before, the South African-based artiste had released a series of hymnal albums characterised by worship tracks that were popular mainly within the Methodist Church of Zimbabwe. Chivaviro has released a string of albums including "Peace ,Hope and Love" (1999), "Power" (2000), 'Komborerai Africa" (2002), "Kuna Mwari Zvitaure - Hymnal Praise" (2005), "The Return" (2009), "Nguva Yakanakisa - Hymnal Praise Vol 2" (2010) amongst others. At present Rev Chivaviro is the Apostle of a Ministry called Assemblies of Pentecostal Methodists (APM) head-quartered in South Africa with branches in Zimbabwe, Mozambique and the United Kingdom.