Microsoft has launched the Microsoft 365 Education suite in Africa. The suite combines: Office 365, Windows 10, Intune for Education, Minecraft: Education Edition and Enterprise Mobility + Security, in a single cloud-based package. The announcement was made at Innovation Africa 2017 in Mozambique, where Ministry and industry partners from across the continent gathered to shape the agenda of the education system in African countries. "We know that schools want simple to purchase, simple to manage, secure and efficient systems. Microsoft 365 Education is designed to deliver on that need," said Mark East, Microsoft Regional Leader for Education in Europe Middle East and Africa. "Millions of teachers and students are already using Office 365 for Education to communicate and collaborate with each other every day. With Microsoft 365 Education, we are providing a complete solution for schools in a single purchase that is a less expensive option than purchasing the same products individually. It's also part of our drive to simplify and modernise our licensing programmes ." With mounting pressure on educational institutions to continually improve student achievement and prepare them with skills they'll need when they enter the workforce, the aim of Microsoft 365 Education is to get schools up and running faster through simplified acquisition and deployment. This eliminates wasted time and delivers new capabilities to teachers and students to help them learn and work in new ways. The desire to prepare students for the future is what is propelling Microsoft to build technology that's easy to use and empowering for both teachers and students. Microsoft 365 Education makes it possible to: Unlock creativity in each student with immersive and engaging apps like Minecraft: Education Edition. Enhance independence and efficiency for students of all abilities using intelligent tools built into Office apps Promote teamwork with a single hub for classes using Microsoft Teams. Make it easier to work together in real-time with co-authoring in Office, while providing a universal toolkit to connect, share and communicate e, safe experience for everyone while managing users, data and devices in a single dashboard. Protect identity, apps, data and devices with intelligent security