Though there has been a substantial decline in global measles death, Nigeria still tops the chart of number of children not vaccinated against measles. A new report published by the World Health Organisation indicates that 20.8 million children worldwide are still missing their first measles vaccine dose and more than half of these unvaccinated children live in six countries. In a joint press statement sponsored by CDC/GAVI/UNICEF and WHO on the report, they noted that in spite of the substantial decline of global measles death, a lot still needs to be done. Nigeria tops the list of countries with unvaccinated children from measles with 3.3 million children, followed by India - 2.9 million, Pakistan - 2.0 million, Indonesia - 1.2 million, Ethiopia - 0.9 million and Democratic Republic of Congo, DRC, with 0.7 million. Since measles is a highly contagious viral disease, large outbreaks continue to occur in these countries including Nigeria resulting in some deaths. The Executive Director, National Primary Health Care Development Agency, NPHCDA, Faisal Shuaib, said a surveillance data shows that measles incidence among children under five years increased in Northern Nigeria. A UNICEF survey earlier revealed that measles among children under the age of five increased more than two-fold in Northern Nigeria between 2014 and 2016. To curtail the spread of the disease and prevent death of children under five, the federal government has released N3.5 billion for vaccination programme and a nationwide measles campaign has been rolled out for the 2017/2018 measlesimmunisation calendar. The measles campaign was billed to have started on October 26 in 19 northern states. Mr. Shuaib said the plans are to start the measles vaccination ahead of the 2017/2018 dry season, the period normally associated with the spread of the disease. The vaccination in the North-west is set to hold between October, 26-31. That for the North-east will take place between November 30 and December, 7 while the North-central and the FCT vaccination will take place from February 1-13, 2018. The next phase of the exercise will take place in 17 southern states from March 8-20, 2018. Measles outbreaks in the affected countries and other countries in Europe and North America put children at risk of severe health complications such as pneumonia, diarrhoea, encephalitis, blindness and death. According to the statement, since 2000, an estimate of 5.5 billion doses of measles containing vaccines have been provided for children through routine immunisation services and mass vaccination campaigns, saving an estimated 20.4 million lives. According to the leading health organisations, there was a decline in global death from the disease in 2016 as an estimated 90,000 people died from measles. This is 84 per cent drop from more than 550,000 deaths in 2000. Though there has been a substantial decline in global measles death, Nigeria still tops the chat of far too many children who are still missing their first measles vaccine dose. A new report published by the World Health Organisation, indicates that 20.8 million children are still missing their first measles vaccine dose and more than half of these unvaccinated children live in six countries. The joint press release which was sponsored by CDC/GAVI/UNICEF and WHO noted in spite the substantial decline of global measles death, some six countries account for more than half of children missing their first measles vaccine dose. Nigeria tops these countries with 3.3 million, followed by India 2.9 million, Pakistan 2.0 million, Indonesia 1.2 million, Ethiopia 0.9 million and Democratic Republic of Congo, DRC, with 0.7 million. Since measles is a high contagious viral disease, large outbreaks continue to occur in these country especially in Nigeria as the country records suspected measles cases and deaths from the disease. The Executive Director, National Primary Health Care Development Agency, NPHCDA, Faisal Shuaib said a surveillance data shows that measles incidence among children under five years increased in the northern part of Nigeria from 190 million in 2014 to 527 million in 2016. A UNICEF survey earlier revealed that the incident of measles among children under the age of five increased more than two-fold in the northern part of Nigeria between 2014 and 2016. To curtail the spread of the disease and prevent death of children under five, the federal government has released N3.5 billion for vaccination programme and a nationwide measles campaign has been rolled out for the 2017/2018 measlesimmunisation calendar. The measles campaign was billed to have started October 26 in 19 northern states. Mr. Shuaib said the plans are to start the measles vaccination ahead of the 2017/2018 dry season, the period normally associated with the spread of the disease. The vaccination in the North-west is set to hold between October, 26-31. That for the North-east will take place between November 30 and December 7, while the North-central and the FCT vaccination will take place from February 1-13, 2018. The next phase of the exercise will take place in 17 southern states from March 8-20, 2018. Measles outbreaks in the affected countries and other countries in Europe and north America put children at risk of severe health complications such as pneumonia, diarhoea, encephalitis, blindness and death. According to the statement, since 2000, an estimate of 5.5 billion doses of measles containing vaccines have been provided for children through routine immunisation services and mass vaccination campaigns, saving an estimate of 20.4 million lives. According to the leading health organisations, there was a decline global death from the disease in 2016 as an estimated 90,000 people died from measles, this is 84 per cent drop from more than 550,000 deaths in 2000. This marks the first time global measles death has fallen below 100,000 per year. Jean-Marie Okwo-Bele, Director of WHO's Department of Immunization, Vaccines and Biologicals said measles elimination will only be reached if measles vaccines reach every child, everywhere. "We have seen a substantial drop in measles deaths for more than two decades, but now we must strive to reach zero measles cases," According to the health agencies, the world is still far from reaching regional measles elimination goals. Coverage with the first of two required doses of measles vaccine has stalled at approximately 85% since 2009, far short of the 95% coverage needed to stop measles infections, and coverage with the second dose, despite recent increases, was only 64% in 2016. However, the agencies raised the fear that achievement in measles free society might be reversed when polio-funded resources supporting routine immunization services, measles and rubella vaccination campaigns, and surveillance, diminish and disappear following polio eradication. They said countries with the greatest number of measles deaths rely most heavily on polio-funded resources and are at highest risk of reversing progress after polio eradication is achieved which is almost done. Jean-Marie Okwo-Bele, Director of WHO's Department of Immunization, Vaccines and Biologicals said measles elimination will only be reached if measles vaccines reach every child, everywhere. "We have seen a substantial drop in measles deaths for more than two decades, but now we must strive to reach zero measles cases," she said. According to the health agencies, the world is still far from reaching regional measles elimination goals. Coverage with the first of two required doses of measles vaccine has stalled at approximately 85 per cent since 2009, far short of the 95 per cent coverage needed to stop measles infections; and coverage with the second dose, despite recent increases, was only 64 per cent in 2016. However, the agencies raised the fear that achievement in measles free society might be reversed when polio-funded resources supporting routine immunization services, measles and rubella vaccination campaigns, and surveillance, diminish and disappear following polio eradication. They said countries with the greatest number of measles deaths rely most heavily on polio-funded resources and are at highest risk of reversing progress after polio eradication is achieved which is almost done.