Lagos — No fewer than 399 suspects were arrested by troops during the Exercise Crocodile Smile conducted in Lagos and Ogun States respectively. The 35 Artillery Brigade Commander, Brig.-Gen. Bassey Adonkie, who made the disclosure while giving an appraisal of the exercise at the closing ceremony of the Crocodile Smile 2 at 192 Battalion, Ajilete, Ogun State Saturday, said the Crocodile Smile 2 led to the arrest of suspected armed robbers, kidnappers and other criminals and recovery of ammunition. "A total of 399 suspects were arrested for different offences across the South-West region and handed over to various security agencies concerned. In addition, 20 assorted arms were recovered, while illicit drugs were also recovered and handed over to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA)," he said. The commander who said over 1,000 officers drawn from Army formations in Lagos and Ogun states participated in the exercise, asserted that criminal activities had reduced following the crackdown. The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, who was represented by the Chief of Training and Operations, Maj.-Gen. David Ahmadu, said that the exercise leveraged on the gains of the Crocodile Smile 1. "Experience drawn from the exercise conducted in 2016 revealed that criminals and miscreants do flee from areas of ongoing operations to seek safe haven and cause security menace in areas hitherto regarded as peaceful. It was in line with this development, that I deemed it necessary to extend the areas of coverage for this year's exercise Crocodile Smile to cover the South-West and South-South regions of the country," he said. He said that the exercise was a joint operation conducted with other sister agencies, adding that it improved comradeship, inter-agency cooperation and synergy. The General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division, Maj.-Gen. Peter Dauke, said the exercise was able to mitigate prevalent security challenges such as pipeline vandalism, militancy, ritual killings, smuggling, kidnapping and drug related offences.