Deputy Minister Buti Manamela in his capacity as Chairperson of the Presidential Task Team on Creative Industries today met with the elders in the creative arts to discuss progress on the work of the Task Team. Of particular focus was the two pieces of legislation affecting this sector, namely the Copyright Amendment Bill as well as the Performers Protection Amendment Bill. The Bill was explained to the elders in detail and context was provided on how the legislation will benefit the South African artists in particular. The elders also got an opportunity to paint a picture to the Deputy Minister of their realities in the industry pre and post the democratic dispensation in South Africa. They expressed a deep need to have the business environment of the arts remedied so we can ultimately eradicate the narrative of artists dying as paupers. The elders were also brought up to speed regarding the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) Special Dispensation for the arts which was presented for the first time in August at the Musicians Indaba. The Department of Labour will pilot a sectoral model for actors who comply with the Act in its current form. "The creative industry has become one of my most important passions and I feel honoured to be amongst elders in this industry, not only because we are meeting but because we are working. Arts and culture is an important political instrument." said Deputy Minister Buti Manamela to the elders. Deputy Minister Manamela then invited the elders to a lunch with the five finalists of the Idols musical contest for an intergenerational engagement. Discussions centered around the lived experiences of the elders and challenges they continue to face in the industry and how the youngsters can overcome the challenges. The Idols finalists thanked the Deputy Minister for the opportunity to meet the elders and sit at the same table with them. The elders who attended the meeting are Vusi Mahlasela, Dorothy Masuku, Hilda Tloubatla, Nothembi Mkwebane, Elsie Rasalanavho, Dr John Kani, Mercy Pakela, Raks Seakhoa and Prof Keorapetse Kgositsile. Deputy Minister committed that the issues raised by the elders will be dealt with on a continuous basis by the Task Team working with all Departments concerned especially the Department of Arts and Culture. Issued by: Department of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation