Dar es Salaam — Newly appointed Bank of Tanzania (BoT) governor Florens Luoga has said he was taken by surprise over President John Magufuli's announcement allocating him the post. Prof Luoga made this revelation when briefing journalists shortly after the announcement at a State House function Monday, October 23. He will succeed Prof Benno Ndulu whose tenure comes to an end in January, 2018. "The appointment came as a complete surprise to me. I never expected this nor am I certain someone else did. All in all, I've accepted this responsibility with all my heart. I'm fully aware that it is a highly demanding task," said the BoT governor appointee. "I will learn from the outgoing governor and other members of management and staff. I'm sure with their support and commitment, all will be fine," he added. Prof Luoga, who until his appointment was University of Dar es Salaam's Vice Chancellor (Academic), asked cooperation from all stakeholders so that he would deliver and exceed expectations in his new responsibilities. Announcing the appointment Dr Magufuli thanked Prof Ndulu for a job well done during all the years he held the governor's office. "I appreciate Prof Ndulu's work very much. And, provided that his tenure will end next January, I've decided to pick the new governor from members of the negotiating teams. He is no other but Prof Florens Luoga," said Dr Magufuli. "Critics will challenge that the post should be held by an economist by profession. Let them be assured that my appointee is an expert in taxation law. As to economists, we have such experts as Dr Yamungu Kayandambila, the deputy governor responsible for Economic and Financial Policies (EFP), and Dr Benard Kibesse who is in charge of Financial Stability and Deepening (FSB)," the Head of State added. On July 11, President Magufuli appointed Prof Luoga chairman of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) board to replace Mr Benard Mchomvu who was sacked and his board of directors dissolved in November last year.