Corporate Council on Africa (CCA) will lead its first ever trade mission to Sudan on December 4-7, 2017 following the U.S. administration's recent decision to lift economic sanctions on the country. CCA will convene a private sector delegation of investors and business executives to explore opportunities in agribusiness, energy, ICT, infrastructure and power. The trade mission aims to capitalize on the significant shift in U.S. policy. On October 12, 2017, the United States officially revoked longstanding economic sanctions on Sudan. This momentous decision opens the door for U.S. companies to do business in Africa's sixth largest economy, which boasts a market of more than 40 million people. "CCA is honored and delighted to be the first organization to lead a trade delegation to Sudan following the United States' decision," said CCA President and CEO, Ms. Florizelle Liser. "This organization is deeply committed to economic development in every African country and I believe Sudan presents yet unexplored opportunities to investors and that the Government of Sudan is eager to welcome U.S. businesses." Sudan is endowed with natural resources such as petroleum, iron ore, copper, gold, gum arabica, silver and hydropower. Additionally, 8.3% of the country is arable land. According to the African Development Bank, Sudan's economy grew at 3.4% in 2017 and is expected to grow at 3.6% in 2018 following the lift of the sanctions. Sudan also enjoys a unique geostrategic position on the continent, straddling sub-Saharan Africa, North Africa and bordering the Red Sea which links it to the Middle East. The country has bilateral trade conventions and agreements with both African and Arab countries and is a member of COMESA. In Khartoum, trade mission delegates will meet with Sudanese officials from a range of ministries including Agriculture and Forestry; ICT; Mines, Roads, Transportation and Bridges; Power, Petroleum and Gas. The mission will also conduct business-to-business meetings with key Sudanese private sector actors. This historic trade mission will give business leaders access and exposure to a dynamic economy focused on diversification, the promotion of the private sector, and  untapped investment opportunities. Trade mission organizer, Corporate Council on Africa (CCA), is the leading U.S. business association focused solely on connecting business interests in Africa. Established in 1993 to promote business and investment between the United States and the nations of Africa, CCA serves as a neutral, trusted intermediary connecting its member firms with the essential government and business leaders they need to do business and succeed in Africa. CCA trade missions serve as excellent door-openers that help firms establish strategic connections with local business communities in Africa, and facilitate access to key economic decision-makers and senior government officials. For more information and to register, please visit trademissions.corporatecouncilonafrica.com. For more information, please contact Biova Kabine at bkabine@corporatecouncilonafrica.com or call +1 202-835-1115.